COUNTY OF NEVADA
950 Maidu Avenue
Nevada City, CA 95959-8617
(530) 265-1480
Fax: (530) 265-9836
bdofsupervisors@co.nevada.ca.us
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
Heidi Hall, 1st District (Chair)
Ed Scofield, 2nd District
Dan Miller, 3rd District (Vice-Chair)
Susan Hoek, 4th District
Richard Anderson, 5th District
*****
Julie Patterson Hunter, Clerk of the Board
Alison Lehman, County Executive Officer
Katharine L. Elliott, County Counsel
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
AGENDA
9:00 AM
Tuesday, June 9, 2020
Date
Time
Location
Board Chambers, First Floor
Eric Rood Administrative Center
950 Maidu Avenue
Nevada City, California
The Board of Supervisors welcomes you to their regular meeting.
Pursuant to Governor Gavin Newsom's Executive Order pertaining to the convening of public meetings
in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the County of Nevada will hold its
regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Supervisors by remote.
The Board of Supervisors will attend the meeting and participate to the same extent as if they were present.
This meeting is broadcast live on Nevada County Media Channel 17 in the Western County and
on Suddenlink Channel 78 in the Eastern County, and can be viewed live through the web at
https://nevco.legistar.com/Calendar.aspx.
Members of the public who are unable to view the meeting on television or through the web
may call (408) 418-9388 to listen to the meeting live.
You will be prompted to provide the Meeting ID#: 126 334 8448 and the Password#: 97456888.
Closed Captioning is available for hearing impaired viewers.
******
TO ADDRESS THE BOARD ON A MATTER ON THE AGENDA: Clerk of the Board staff remains dedicated to 
finding new and innovative methods to suit our County's civic engagement needs during this challenging time.
Members of the public can provide general comments on items that are of interest to the public and are within 
the subject matter jurisdiction of the Board, or on a particular agenda item by;
1) Writing a letter to the Board of Supervisors;
2) Calling (530) 264-0554 and leaving a voice mail message;
3) Emailing BOS.PublicComment@co.nevada.ca.us; or
4) Leaving an eComment at https://www.mynevadacounty.com/822/Meeting-Information-Video-Streaming.
Please provide your name, District of residence, and the agenda item you are commenting on.
Anyone requiring reasonable accommodation to participate in the meeting should contact the Clerk of the 
Board’s office by calling (530) 265-1480 at least four days prior to the meeting. (TTY/Speech-to-Speech users 
may dial 7-1-1 for the California Relay Service.)
Page 1 
COUNTY OF NEVADA
Printed on 6/4/2020
June 9, 2020
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
AGENDA
The agenda and all supporting documents may be obtained at https://nevco.legistar.com/Calendar.aspx. To 
view the supporting documents on this agenda for a particular item, click on the SR number to the left of the 
item. Please note that the on-line agenda may not include all related or updated documents. Proposed actions 
and supporting documents are considered draft until acted upon by the Board. All items listed on the agenda 
may be acted upon by the Board of Supervisors.
Proposed actions and supporting documents are considered draft until acted upon by the Board. All items listed 
on the agenda may be acted upon by the Board of Supervisors.
REGULAR MEETING: 9:00 AM
STANDING ORDERS:
Call the meeting to order.
Pledge of Allegiance.
Corrections and/or deletions to agenda.
PUBLIC COMMENT:  9:01 A.M.
Members of the public shall be allowed to address the Board on items not appearing on the agenda that are of 
interest to the public and are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Board by:
1) Writing the Board of Supervisors;
2) Leaving a voice mail message at (530) 264-0554;
3) Emailing BOS.PublicComment@co.nevada.ca.us; or
4) Leaving an eComment at https://www.mynevadacounty.com/822/Meeting-Information-Video-Streaming.
Please provide your name and District of residence.
CONSENT CALENDAR:
These items are expected to be routine and noncontroversial. The Board of Supervisors will act upon them at 
one time without discussion. Any Board member may request that an item be removed from the consent 
calendar for discussion. Members of the public wishing to ask questions or hear discussion on items listed under 
the consent agenda, may raise their concerns to the Board members when the consent agenda is introduced. 
The Supervisors will take the concerns under consideration and decide if there is adequate reason to remove 
the item from consent.
Child Support Services, Collections, and Housing Director: Mike Dent
1.
SR 20-2781
Resolution approving Amendment 1 to Standard Agreement 20F-3029 between the 
County of Nevada and the State Department of Community Services and Development 
for funding of 2020 Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) Programs (Res. 
20-011), increasing the maximum amount payable from $271,287 to $308,870, 
replacing Article 7, CSBG Terms, Conditions, Programmatic Provisions, and Reporting, 
in its entirety, extending the termination date from December 31, 2020 to May 31, 
2021, and authorizing the Chair of the Board of Supervisors to execute the Amendment. 
(Housing)
Page 2 
COUNTY OF NEVADA
Printed on 6/4/2020
June 9, 2020
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
AGENDA
2.
SR 20-2947
Approval of a Letter of Commitment of Capital Funds for Cashin’s Field Affordable 
Housing Development, located at 170 Gold Flat Road, Nevada City, to expand 
affordable housing in Nevada County. (Housing)
Director of Public Works: Trisha Tillotson
3.
SR 20-2935
Resolution approving Amendment 4 to Agreement BFO18104 between the County of 
Nevada and Riebes Auto Parts, LLC, for a Vendor Managed Inventory Parts Facility 
Operation (Res. 18-104), extending the expiration of the contract through June 30, 
2021 with the option to renew the contract for three additional years, increasing the not 
to exceed maximum total contract amount to $1,684,628, with the option to increase 
the total contract amount by $540,000 per year for three additional years, and 
authorizing the Chair of the Board of Supervisors to execute the Amendment.
4.
SR 20-2936
Resolution authorizing the collection of parcel charges and special taxes for services in 
County Service Areas and Permanent Road Divisions for Fiscal Year 2020/21.
5.
SR 20-2939
Resolution approving a Pledge of Revenue Agreement between the County of Nevada 
and the California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery (CalRecycle) to 
provide financial assurance for postclosure maintenance and corrective actions for the 
McCourtney Road Landfill, authorizing the Director of Public Works to execute the 
Agreement, and rescinding Resolution 97-80. (Solid Waste)
Chief Information Officer: Stephen Monaghan
6.
SR 20-2907
Resolution approving a Third Amendment to the Lease Agreement between the County 
of Nevada and Turning Point Community Programs located at 500 Crown Point Circle, 
Suite 100, Grass Valley (Res. 11-413), to exercise the third option to renew the Lease 
for a term of three years, with rent in the amount of $6,795.52 per month, and 
authorizing the Chair of the Board of Supervisors to execute the Amendment. 
(Facilities)
7.
SR 20-2941
Resolution approving a License Agreement between the County of Nevada and  Pacific 
Gas & Electric Company (PG&E) for use of the Madelyn Helling Library Gene Albaugh 
Community Room as a community resource center and staging area during Public 
Safety Power Shutoff Events (PSPS), for a term of sixty-six months beginning June 30, 
2020 and ending December 30, 2025, and authorizing the Director of Facilities 
Management to sign the License Agreement. (Facilities)
Interim County Librarian: Elise Strickler
8.
SR 20-2951
Resolution accepting a grant from the California State Library for $10,000 in funds to 
support the Lunch at the Library Program at the Nevada County Community Library, for 
use during the period May 1, 2020 to August 30, 2020, to provide for summer lunch 
programs and stipends for teen interns, and authorizing the County Librarian to execute 
the grant agreement.
Page 3 
COUNTY OF NEVADA
Printed on 6/4/2020
June 9, 2020
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
AGENDA
Clerk of the Board: Julie Patterson Hunter
9.
SR 20-3120
Acceptance of Board of Supervisors Summary Minutes for May 26, 2020.
*DEPARTMENT HEAD MATTERS:
Child Support Services, Collections, and Housing Director: Mike Dent
10.
SR 20-2911
Resolution approving the Grant Agreement between the County of Nevada and 
Homeless Resource Council of the Sierras for California Emergency Solutions and 
Housing, Emergency Shelter and Housing Services to provide up to $300,000 in funding 
to the County to support County and Continuum of Care strategic objectives to address 
homelessness, for the period July 11, 2019 through June 30, 2022, and authorizing the 
Director of Child Support Services/Collections and Housing & Community Services to 
execute the Agreement. (Housing)
Public Health Director:  Jill Blake
11.
SR 20-2908
Acceptance of the Nevada County Public Health Department's 2019 Novel Coronavirus 
(COVID-19) informational presentation.
Chief Information Officer: Stephen Monaghan
12.
SR 20-2509
Acceptance of the Office of Emergency Services' Wildfire Preparedness update 
focused on preparing for Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E) Public Safety Power Shutoffs 
(PSPS). (Emergency Services)
SCHEDULED ITEM:
Planning Director: Brian Foss
13.
SR 20-2949
Public hearing to consider the Nevada County Planning Commission’s April 23, 2020, 
(4-0 Vote) recommendation to adopt an ordinance for amendments to Section L-II 3.4 
of Chapter II Zoning Regulations and the addition of Section L-II 3.4.1 to Chapter II 
Zoning Regulations of the Land Use and Development Code to allow a limited number 
of backyard chickens in R1 and RA zoning districts.
(Introduce/Waive further reading/Adopt) An Ordinance amending Section L-II 3.4, and 
adding Section L-II 3.4.1 regarding backyard chicken keeping, to the Nevada County 
Land Use and Development Code.
Page 4 
COUNTY OF NEVADA
Printed on 6/4/2020
June 9, 2020
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
AGENDA
*ANNOUNCEMENTS:
Pursuant to Government Code Section 54954.2, Board members and County Executive Officer may make a 
brief announcement or brief report on his or her activities. Board members and County Executive Officer may 
also provide a reference to staff or other resources for factual information, request staff to report back to the 
Board at a subsequent meeting concerning any matter, or take action to direct staff to place a matter of 
business on a future agenda.
ADJOURNMENT:
*(The Board of Supervisors can discuss these items at any time during the meeting.)
This agenda was posted on bulletin boards 72 hours in advance of the meeting at the following locations:
1. Eric Rood Administrative Center; outside Board office, outside Board Chambers, and outside main entrance. 
2. 
Truckee 
Joseph 
Center. 
3) 
District 
V 
Board 
of 
Supervisors 
Conference 
Room. 
4) 
Online 
at 
https://nevco.legistar.com/Calendar.aspx.
Posted June 4, 2020.
Page 5 
COUNTY OF NEVADA
Printed on 6/4/2020
June 9, 2020
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
AGENDA
PERSONS DESIRING TO ADDRESS THE BOARD
CONTROL OF MEETING:
The Board Chairperson shall first caution any person at the meeting who is abusive, disruptive, or out of order, and then 
ask that person to leave if the person will not stop; additionally, the Chair reserves the right to recess the meeting until 
the person leaves or is escorted out and order is restored.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Matters on the Agenda: The Board shall allow public comment on items appearing on the agenda when the agenda item 
is considered by the Board.  The Chair may limit the total amount of time for comment on any agenda item and may 
limit any individual desiring to address the Board to no less than three (3) minutes.  Comments by the public must be 
relevant to the item on the agenda being considered by the Board.
Matters not on the Agenda: At regular meetings of the Board, members of the public shall be allowed to address the 
Board of Supervisors on matters not appearing on the agenda which are of interest to the public and which are within 
the subject matter jurisdiction the Board. Pursuant to the Ralph M. Brown Act, the Board shall not take any action or 
discuss any matter not appearing on the agenda; although staff may be asked to briefly respond to or follow up on such 
items.
Members of the public wishing to ask questions or hear discussion on items listed under the consent agenda, may raise 
their concerns to the Board members when the consent agenda is introduced. The Supervisors will take the concerns 
under consideration and decide if there is adequate reason to remove the item from consent.
At special meetings of the Board, public comment will only be allowed on matters appearing on the agenda.
The Chair of the Board may limit the total amount of time allocated for public comment; provided, however, the Board 
will allocate at least fifteen (15) minutes for receiving public comment during any Board meeting.  The Chair of the 
Board may limit any individual desiring to address the Board to no less than three (3) minutes.  Time to address the 
Board will be allocated on the basis of the order in which the requests were received.
PUBLIC HEARINGS:
All members of the public shall be allowed to address the Board as to any item which is noticed on the Board’s agenda 
as a public hearing.  The Chair of the Board may limit the total amount of time allocated for the public hearing and may 
limit any individual desiring to address the Board to not less than three (3) minutes.  Any person may provide the Board 
with a written statement in lieu of or in supplement to any oral statement made during a public hearing.  Written 
statements shall be submitted to the Clerk of the Board. Whenever a public hearing is conducted, the public hearing is 
closed and the matter is continued to a subsequent meeting for Board deliberation and/or action, the Board shall not 
allow public comment and/or testimony on that item at the subsequent hearing.  However, at the initial public hearing, 
prior to taking action, the Board may, at its sole discretion, elect to continue the matter and reopen the public hearing.  
At the subsequent hearing, all information will be considered.  The Board may also, at the initial public hearing, prior to 
taking action, announce that the public hearing is being continued for specific information and the public testimony will 
only be heard on new information specific to the Board’s direction.  If, after the public hearing is closed and the Board 
later decides to reopen the public hearing for public testimony, appropriate notices must be published.
Page 6 
COUNTY OF NEVADA
Printed on 6/4/2020
June 9, 2020
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
AGENDA
ORDER AND DECORUM:
Individuals or organizations desiring to address the Board shall: 1) Address the Board from the podium.  Speakers are 
encouraged but not required to give their name and city of residence before addressing the Board.  Speakers shall 
direct their comments to the Board, not the audience or staff. 2) Comment on the specific matter before the Board with 
reasons for the position taken. 3) The Chair may, at his or her discretion, allow up to five (5) minutes for those who are 
serving as a spokesperson for a group or organization. 4) A speaker may not yield time to another speaker. 5) No 
individual may speak more than once during the Public Comment period or on an item on the agenda unless recognized 
by the Chair as having new information. 6) In the interest of civil discourse, the rules specified in this Order and 
Decorum of Board Business and Robert’s Rules of Order, to the extent such Rules are not in conflict with the Brown 
Act, shall apply at all Board meetings.  It shall be the responsibility of the Chair to ensure public comments are 
conducted in such a manner that avoids disruptive activity, promotes mutual respect, keeps comments focused on 
issues, and avoids personal attack. 7) Applicants, applicant representatives and appellants desiring to speak shall be 
permitted to speak first during the public comment portion of a public hearing for not more than ten (10) minutes (or 
fifteen (15) minutes at Appeal Hearings), unless different rules for conducting the hearing are provided by County code.  
Time limits may be modified at the Chair of the Board’s discretion.
ORDINANCES:
1) By statute, an ordinance may be passed immediately upon introduction only after notice and a public hearing.
2) An urgency ordinance may be passed immediately upon introduction.
3) Ordinances shall not be passed within five days of their introduction, nor at other than a regular meeting or at an 
adjourned regular meeting unless authorized by statute as indicated above. The Board of Supervisors will address 
ordinances at first readings. The public is urged to address ordinances at first readings; as passage of ordinances will be 
held at second readings, after reading the title.
4) Adoption of the ordinance is made by majority vote.
5) The Board reserves the right to amend any proposed ordinances and to hold a first reading in lieu of a second 
reading. (Gov. Code Section 25131, et seq.)
INFORMATIONAL CORRESPONDENCE:
The Board may direct any item of informational correspondence to a department head for appropriate action.
REFERENCES:
Nevada County Resolution 17-084 (Public comment)
Ralph M. Brown Act, California Government Code Sec. 54950, et. seq. (Open meetings law)
Nevada County Land Use Code Sec. L-II 5.12 (Appeals)
Page 7 
COUNTY OF NEVADA
Printed on 6/4/2020
