Central Minnesota  
Next Generation 9-1-1 Committee 
Thursday, June 11, 2020 – 10:00 a.m. 
Conference Call 
Conference Call Bridge: 1-800-430-1833, Access 2557200# 
Agenda 
 
1. Call to Order 
2. Roll Call and Introductions  
3. Approval of Agenda (P1) 
4. Approval of Minutes from May 14, 2020 Meeting (P2-8) 
 
5. Communications 
 
6. Reports  
a. ECN Update (View Monthly Update) 
1. Resources and Documents from ECN for use in PSAP Facilities in Latest News on MNECB.org 
2. Rapid Deploy (Update) 
b. Statewide NG911 Committee  
1. Telephone CPR Statewide Operational Standard (P9-14) 
c. Statewide NG911 GIS Work Group 
1. Who are the Central Region Workgroup Representative(s)? 
 
7. General Discussion  
a. Text to 9-1-1 Go Live (P15) 
b. NG911 Grant (Update) 
c. Planned conversion of VLAW31 stations (P16-20) 
d. Regional Interoperability Talkgroups Uplifted (P21) 
e. Training Opportunities 
    1. COOP Tabletop Exercise – September 17, 2020 (Register) 
 
8. Other Issues    
10.  Upcoming Meetings 
a. July 9, 2020 – Conference Call  
11.  Adjournment  
12. PSAP Roundtable Discussion 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to the Governor's Stay Safe Order during the Coronavirus pandemic, Central Region meetings may be conducted 
under Minnesota Statute 13D.021 – Meetings by Telephone or Other Electronic Means. 
 
 
1 
Central MN 
Next Generation 9-1-1 Committee Meeting 
Thursday, May 14, 2020 – 10:00 AM 
 
 
NG911 COMMITTEE MEMBERS/ALTERNATES PRESENT 
1. 
Joyce Zika & Julia Fraley – Benton County 
2. 
Jody Norstegard – Kandiyohi County 
3. 
Becky Howell – Meeker County 
4. 
Victoria Ingram – Morrison County 
5. 
Michele Burke & Mary Lieser – Stearns County 
6. 
Brian Koehler – Stevens County 
7. 
Tracy Koosman & Sheriff John Holtz – Swift County 
8. 
Sarah Booker – Todd County  
9. 
Erika Pennar & Bryan Savaloja – Wadena County 
10. 
Billijo Porter – Wilkin County 
11. 
Haley Dubois & Richard Nevala – Wright County 
 
NG911 COMMITTEE MEMBERS/ALTERNATES ABSENT: 
12. 
City of St. Cloud 
13. 
Big Stone 
14. 
Douglas  
15. 
Grant  
16. 
Mille Lacs  
17. 
Otter Tail 
18. 
Pope 
19. 
Traverse  
 
GUESTS: 
1. 
Brandon Larson, O&O Vice Chair – City of St. Cloud 
2. 
Kristen Lahr, O&O Chair – Stearns County 
3. 
Stephanie Johnson, EMAC Chair – Meeker County 
4. 
Andy Beckstrom – Mille Lacs County 
5. 
Caitlin Christenson – Stevens County, GIS 
6. 
Chelsey Bagent – Swift County, GIS 
7. 
Cathy Anderson – ECN, Standards/Training Coordinator  
8. 
Dan Craigie – ECN, 9-1-1 Program Manager 
9. 
Leslie Sticht – ECN, 9-1-1 Technical Engineer  
10. 
Steve Tait – ECN, Southern RIC 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 
Meeting called to order by NG911 Vice Chair Sarah Booker at 10:00 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTIONS:  
Introductions were conducted. There was a quorum for the NG911 Committee.  
 
APPROVAL OF AGENDA 
Morrison County made a motion to approve the NG911 Committee Agenda. Wilkin County seconded, 
motion carried. 
 
 
 
2 
APPROVAL OF MINUTES 
Wright County made a motion to approve the April 9, 2020 NG911 Committee minutes. Morrison 
County seconded, motion carried. 
 
Communications 
None.  
 
REPORTS: 
ECN Update 
Tait thanked the PSAPs in the Central Region for their ongoing engagement communicating and 
coordinating with ECN on the COVID-19 acts you are experiencing. Deputy Director Clark compiles 
and sends that to DPS leadership on a daily basis. There has been a lot of discussion in this group, 
and other regions, on Executive Order 20-34 and how ineffective it has been. Just for a little 
perspective, yesterday’s sitrep provided to the EOC had 58 current addresses that are active that we 
provided PSAPs. We added 289, we took off 231. Had 486 long term care addresses we provided. 
We have got 40 PSAPs that have received residential addresses and 52 PSAPs that have received 
long-term care facility addresses. Everybody has been very frustrated with the low number of 
addresses compared to total number of cases. Director Wahlberg sent out an FAQ document on 
Friday that explained the process, what ECN’s roles and responsibilities are, and what MDH’s roles 
and responsibilities are and how they collect the data.   
 
Craigie spoke briefly about the Verizon outage last week. The morning of May 7th for sure three 
Central Region PSAPs (Todd, Otter Tail and Douglas) reported some strange issues with 9-1-1 calls. 
They were reporting individuals were not able to call in. After quite a bit of exhaustive trouble-
shooting we are still looking for answers. We have at least narrowed it down that there was very 
likely an internal issue at Verizon. We have opened a trouble ticket with their partner Comtech and at 
Verizon. It came through as a nation-wide issue. It lasted approximately an hour. We are still 
gathering some information. There does seem to be an incident that occurred where an individual 
was trying to call 911, but could not get a hold of somebody and there might be an attributable death 
to that. They are investigating. Really interesting part of that call was it came in as a Sprint call, 
because the dialer could not get Verizon, it roamed onto Sprint. PSAP thought it was Sprint. So, that 
took us down a rabbit hole. There is still some investigation going on. 
 
1. Alex Tech Training Module Access to Change  
Anderson sent out a GovDelivery, as of about 8:02 a.m. tomorrow morning the URL is going to be 
changing. The same list that got the GovDelivery for this before will be getting the information 
tomorrow. It is going to make it substantially more simple to get into this. Anderson has seen a 
mock-up of the site. It is nice, you just click on the URL and you are right in there. They have the 
modules laid out pretty easy to find. You are not going to need to remember any kind of a user 
name, password. It is secured. They still have the same security level with the site, it is through 
Alex Tech. There will not be any post credits allowed, or allocated, for any of these anymore. 
Based on the last 3 years, nobody has gone in looking for post credits. Or, if they have, they have 
clicked on it and stayed in a maximum of 30 seconds and then clicked out. Alex Tech cannot do 
that. If the post board came and said can you tell us how long a person was in, did they really get 
these credits, they would not be able to substantiate that claim. Based on that it is only 0.5 credit, in 
talking to some other cops, there are other ways people can get post credits. We do not have to 
worry about changing passwords every six months. It is only going to be shared with public safety 
or other people that have modules in there that have a need. If you are a PSAP Manager or 
supervisor and you get my emails you will get this information. It will go out to Sheriffs, Police 
Chiefs as well. If you do not get it and you want to know the URL just send Anderson an email. 
You will still be able to print a page indicating you have finished a module. It is no longer in 
certificate form, but it will tell you that you passed a quiz.  
 
 
3 
REPORTS: (Continued 
ECN Update (Continued) 
Statewide NG911 Committee (Continued) 
1. Telephone CPR Statewide Operational Standard 
Anderson reported the workgroup still was working on it. We have kind of a final draft with just a 
couple of pieces Chair Pankonie is trying to get information on so we can finish that. It will be 
discussed at the next statewide meeting. If you can make that next Wednesday they will be 
discussing that and other applicable items regarding the training portion. Anybody that is looking 
to get trained, RQI, they are affiliated with the Heart Association, they do plan to get out free T-
CPR training that will include certification and book cards for your computer that you would be 
able to walk people through. Right now, the only ones we know that are charging that has a 
specific portion for only T-CPR is PowerPhone. You can also use them. That does cost. There is 
reimbursement available for that, but not for EMD, just for the T-CPR portions. This will be talked 
about at length on the next meeting next Wednesday.  
 
Statewide NG911 GIS Work Group 
1. Workgroup Representative(s) for the Central Region 
Swift County GIS reported we have not had any meetings, but they have requested everybody send in 
their current GIS data, so they can do the new reviews and see where everyone is at before we start 
work with the federal grant.  
 
GENERAL DISCUSSION 
a. Text-to-911 Go Live 
Vice Chair Booker reported we included the preliminary schedule that we originally had. 
Many of us have been pushed back quite a ways. Has anybody completed their transition, or 
are currently in the process of it? For the Motorola Vesta customers has anyone received a 
new schedule date? Kandiyohi County will go on June 20th.   
 
b. NG911 Grant – GIS Grant Award  
Vice Chair Booker reported the award information is in the packet. Booker asked are we 
waiting on anyone for the Addendums yet? Shari reported we just received the last of them 
yesterday. It has been turned back to ECN to continue getting the grant agreement in process.  
 
c. Rapid Deploy 
1. ECN Support of PSAP Continuity of Operations Efforts Memo 
Sticht explained we are offering a unique opportunity due to the current pandemic situation 
to add a tool to your current toolbox. Right now, you have the ability to transfer radio calls, 
and transfer a call to another county should you need to abandon. But what you do not get 
is address information to that next county. This tool we are offering to support everybody 
on a trial basis is called Rapid Deploy. It is a location information tool. It is a very simple 
set-up, and it is a very intuitive web-based device. It is immediately available. It uses the 
GIS layer the counties have already put together in preparation for the NG911. This is an 
awesome way to see your work in action and very much take advantage of the changes you 
need to make to make it more friendly for the PSAP. This is a trial, a 6-month pilot project. 
Everybody has the opportunity to join in and if the team checks it out and decides it is a 
worthwhile effort we will continue the services. ECN will be taking care of the costs. The 
tool itself does not integrate in any current CAD system, it is also not integrated with CJIS. 
Those are intentionally separated so if at the end of this 6 months trial you decide maybe 
this is not something you want to continue you are not unwinding. If it is something you 
decide you want to continue, then you have the opportunity to develop the tool into an even 
more in-depth useful system for you and your system. And we will also get that CJIS 
connection taken care of, so it is that much easier for everybody.  
 
 
4 
GENERAL DISCUSSION (Continued) 
c. Rapid Deploy (Continued) 
1. ECN Support of PSAP Continuity of Operations Efforts Memo (Continued) 
Tait added the goal is to provide a more robust continuity tool for the regions to use. As 
Sticht mentioned, we are really good in our current continuity efforts to transfer calls to a 
neighboring PSAP. We do that unfortunately on a very regular basis. This is geared more 
towards that long-term outage. Where right now your PSAP is down for what we usually 
count in hours. But, what if we have a PSAP that goes down for days and we are 
transferring dispatch responsibilities to another PSAP? Having the ability to map and locate 
that 9-1-1 caller and have a list of available resources to respond to that emergency is the 
gap we are trying to fill with this Rapid Deploy project. If anything comes out of this 
discussion, whether the region adopts it, or not, it is just really important to have that 
regional discussion on what would it look like if we had several PSAPs go down in the 
region for an extended period of time due to a COVID-type situation and how would we 
manage our operations? Just starting that conversation is a success, and if you want to 
adopt this tool to support those efforts, then it is even more successful. We laid out May 
15th as a deadline, but there is some flexibility there. Our next step here is to open this up 
for some discussion and see what the region thinks.  
 
2. Determine agencies that want to participate 
Vice Chair Booker reported we did have Shari send out a Doodle Poll to determine some 
interests ahead of this meeting. Of the 16 agencies that weighed-in, Stearns County was the 
only one that indicated any interest. The sheriffs had some discussion at their meeting. We 
did not hear from Grant and Mille Lacs County, but the rest of the region did respond to us 
and the overwhelming majority is a “no.” Booker asked Sheriff Holtz to speak to the 
Sheriff’s side. Sheriff Holtz responded some of us sheriffs have talked a little about it. On 
Sheriff Holtz’s side, at this time we have enough fires going on we do not need to start 
another new one to try to learn part of it. And also, some of the sheriffs are already set for 
back-ups and stuff like that. Booker explained in discussing with our sheriff, he is pretty 
much of the same opinion. We have some additional things already set-up for our back-up 
and he did not feel that it would be especially valuable to us at this point.  
 
Sticht wanted to mention she is hearing some conversation through other channels that 
perhaps there is some interest. This is not an all or nothing situation. If there are a few 
PSAPs in the region that do wish to participate Sticht will make sure they get set-up and 
folks can watch and decide to opt-in later. This situation right now with the discount is due 
to the pandemic and the funding we have available, also due to the pandemic, is not going 
to be something that lasts forever, so the opportunity is something that is out there. The leg 
work is being done so there is no heavy lift and no cost to any of the PSAPs.   
 
Vice Chair Booker stated with Stearns County interested in participating is that an issue to 
just have one if the region does not participate as a whole? Sticht replied those that are 
interested will get the configuration and the equipment installed and they will be able to 
have it. If some others decide that they wish not to participate because they do not want to 
have additional tools, that is up to them. We may come and ask you to do an export from 
your current CAD system, so that we can load your data just in case something does 
happen that you do have at least the partial ability to use the services whenever necessary.  
 
Lieser reiterated our interest is very strong and we truly hope we can move forward. It 
sounds like we certainly can. We want to make sure since we are that interested and willing 
to do whatever we need to do to participate, we want that to happen.  
 
 
 
5 
GENERAL DISCUSSION (Continued) 
c. Rapid Deploy (Continued) 
3. Determine agencies that want to be the regional COOP PSAP 
4. Identify Rapid Deploy Regional Representative  
Vice Chair Booker asked are we going to need to identify the representative if we only 
have Stearns County participating? Tait replied he did not think it requires a motion from 
the Committee; a verbal agreement that Stearns is interested is enough for us to move 
forward. Tait asked would anybody from the Committee be interested in monitoring the 
status of the project statewide, so you can report back to this committee, RAC and ESB as 
the project moves down the road? Or would you rather have Tait or Sticht dial in and give a 
report? Wright County would appreciate some sort of report periodically on the progress, 
so she can give updated information to her Sheriff. Tait can provide that as part of the 
Committee meeting. Tait thinks it is really important to pay attention to what is going on 
across the state, so that the Central Region is aligned with what everybody else is doing and 
adopt some best practices that another region learns something good, or bad, on a project. 
 
5. Discuss next steps and MOU 
Vice Chair Booker stated as far as next steps if Lieser will just reach out to Sticht directly 
on your agency’s behalf. If there are other agencies that become interested, or have some 
additional questions or interest, we will just reach out to Sticht at this point.  
 
d. Training Opportunities  
1. COOP Tabletop Exercise – September 17, 2020 
COOP Tabletop Exercise is September 17th at Kandiyohi County. There is a registration 
link if anyone is interested in sending anyone from your agency. Anderson reported we had 
the planning meeting yesterday via WebEx. Normally those are all in-person. Not an ideal 
way to hold that but it did work. We had about 25 people on the call. There is still time to 
register. They identified about 5-6 scenarios the group wants to facilitate, or to build a 
process around for the actual tabletop exercise. The next meeting is going to be the final 
planning meeting on August 6. It is either going to be in-person in St. Paul, or via WebEx 
depending on the status of everything. If you want to get into this send Anderson an email.  
 
e. COVID-19 Weekly Situation Reports PSAP Roundtable Discussion 
Vice Chair Booker reported this would be our roundtable discussion time. Tait had touched 
on Executive Order 20-34 in his report. Is there anyone experiencing any issues we need to 
discuss today? Lieser from Stearns County asked are there any other agencies doing anything 
with masking of their employees? Whether it is required, or optional, and what type? Todd 
County is not. Lieser explained Stearns County is implementing a modified 12-hour teams 
schedule as of next week. Running for 8 weeks thru July 17th. Which just gives us more of a 
team concept. We are also going to be doing prescreening of employees upon arriving to 
work. Wright County asked what will your prescreening look like? Lieser replied the 
prescreening is going to fall in-line with what our jail is currently doing. Our jail sergeants 
are going to be doing the screening for us. They will go up to the jail and in their lobby area 
they get asked the three questions by the jail sergeant, then they have their temperature taken. 
It literally takes seconds unless they answer ‘yes’ to a question. What we are highly 
encouraging, as is the jail, that anybody who has any of those symptoms is calling us ahead 
of time just like if they would be calling in sick to at least ask us what our thoughts are on 
that before they are just showing up. That will start next Saturday. The jail seems to have 
gotten good about doing it and their employees are fine with it. We are not really anticipating 
any problems, just something new for them to get used to doing.  
 
 
 
 
6 
GENERAL DISCUSSION (Continued) 
e. COVID-19 Weekly Situation Reports PSAP Roundtable Discussion (Continued) 
A county asked can you explain what your schedule is going to look like? Lieser replied it is 
going to be 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. and then 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. We wanted to be able to keep PTO. The 
sheriff wanted to be able to still allow them to have some PTO. Right now, their PTO was 
actually wiped clean for those dates May 23-July 17th. We gave them one week to submit 
PTO requests for those weeks on a  seniority basis, after that it is first come first serve. We 
have enough employees, or worked in enough employees, to allow for one possibly two to be 
off depending on the time of day.  
 
A county asked what was the feedback from staff were they on board and recognized the 
need for it? Lieser replied we did it at a staff meeting, because we wanted everybody in-
person. We have been asked for a few years in the past to try a 12-hour schedule and we just 
never had enough employees to make that happen. There are a fair amount of them that are 
excited it is actually happening and they get to try it. We have not heard a ton of negative 
things, there might be we are just not hearing, but we are kind of anxious to get it rolling now 
that we have got it figured out.  
 
A county asked for your schedule, are they working so many days and they have a long 
stretch off? Lieser replied it is 2on-2off, 3on-2off, so never more than 3, some 2’s, they get 
every other weekend of Friday-Saturday-Sunday. Then there is one 8-hour day in there every 
2 weeks.  
 
Tait reported Dan Craigie sent out guidance on bringing vendors into your PSAP to do 
installs, maintenance, etc. Even though we are opening things back up the threat is still there. 
Tait appreciates everybody being proactive on the PPE and the monitoring. That also extends 
to the vendors that are coming in. We have a lot of call handling activity going on in the 
region. We do not know where those vendors have been on their last trip or how sanitary they 
are. Tait would encourage you to put your vendors to task and make sure they are not 
introducing any COVID into your PSAP, and requiring them to adhere to any PPE or 
screening you think is appropriate.  
 
Tait sent out a report on COVID impacts from a national perspective. It was a real short 
document produced by NENA. It has some high-level trends and patterns they are seeing 
from PSAPs across the country. Important to pay attention to this, we are in this for the long 
haul. We can relax on a few things, but we also need to remain vigilant on others. We have 
not had to shut down a PSAP yet, but hopefully we do not see that day coming in the next 
year or few months.  
 
1. PSAP Roundtable on May 21st  
Vice Chair Booker stated our next roundtable is schedule for next week on May 21st. That 
does conflict with O&O. We have the option to cancel or reschedule it for a different time. 
Tait would recommend cancelling and maybe we go to email reporting. Tait can send out an 
email asking the region if there are issues and report that back to ECN. That might be more 
convenient for everybody. We are all kind of tapped out with conference calls and WebExs 
at this point. Booker can agree with that. Wright County motioned to cancel. Stearns County 
seconded. Roll call vote: Benton – yes; Kandiyohi – yes; Meeker – Johnson reported yes for 
Howell; Morrison – yes; Stearns – yes; Stevens – yes; Swift – yes; Todd – yes; Wadena – 
yes; Wilkin – yes; Wright – yes. Booker stated we will be cancelling our PSAP roundtable 
discussion for the 21st. We will take it back up on the 28th.  
 
 
 
 
7 
OTHER ISSUES 
None. 
 
  
UPCOMING MEETINGS 
a. June 11, 2020 – Conference Call  
 
ADJORNMENT: 
Wilkin County made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Swift County seconded, and the motion was 
carried unanimously at 10:43 a.m. 
 
Minutes by Shari Gieseke. 
 
1 
 
Standard 9 1 1 - 3 
Telephone CPR Statewide Operational Standard 
Purpose  
The purpose of this standard is to define Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) responsibilities for 
compliance with Minnesota Statute 403.03, 911 Services To Be Provided, which addresses PSAP 
Telephone Cardiopulmonary (T-CPR) Resuscitation Programs.  
This standard re-states the legislation in a manner that clearly shows the PSAPs compliance options.   
Statement of Standard 
In accordance with Minnesota Statute 403.03, Subd 2, on or before July 1, 2021, every public safety 
answering point must maintain a telephone cardiopulmonary resuscitation program in one of two ways.  
OPTION 1: Providing each 911 Telecommunicator with training in cardiopulmonary resuscitation  
 Training (minimum requirements) 
 
a) Use evidence-based protocol or script for providing T-CPR instructions that 
has been recommended by an academic institution or a nationally recognized 
organization specializing in medical dispatch – AND if the PSAP has a medical 
director, it is approved by that medical director. 
b) Appropriate continuing education as determined by protocol supplier in Option 
1(a) – AND approved by medical director as in part (a). 
OPTION 2: Transferring callers to another PSAP with 911 telecommunicators that have received 
training in cardiopulmonary resuscitation.  
 Training (minimum requirements) 
a) Use an evidence-based protocol for the identification of a person in need of CPR 
b) Provide each 911 Telecommunicator with appropriate training AND continuing 
education to identify a person in need of cardiopulmonary resuscitation through 
the use of an evidence-based protocol; and 
c) Ensure that any PSAP to which calls are transferred uses 911 
Telecommunicators who meet training requirements under Option 1. 
 
Quality Assurance 
o Each PSAP shall conduct ongoing quality assurance (QA) of its T-CPR program.  
 
 
2 
 
Monitoring and Enforcing 
o The Statewide Emergency Communications Board (SECB) shall adopt protocols to 
ensure that operators of every PSAP comply with Minnesota State Statute 403.03, Subd. 
2. 
a) By July 1, 2021, each Minnesota primary PSAP shall submit a letter indicating 
which option they are choosing for compliance to their appropriate Regional 
Emergency Communications/Services Board (ECB/ESB).  
b) Each PSAP will maintain their own records of compliance. 
c) If the PSAP changes their compliance option, they will submit a letter outlining 
the change to their appropriate ECB/ESB.  
Liability Exemption  
o If a caller refuses or is otherwise unwilling or unable to provide CPR or receive T-CPR 
instruction, the 911 Telecommunicator is not required to provide CPR instruction and is 
immune from civil liability for any damages resulting from the fact that such instruction 
was not provided. 
 
o Telephone-CPR instruction is a general duty to the public rather than a special duty 
owed to individuals, and a 911 Telecommunicator must exercise judgement and 
discretion in performing actions including but not limited to: 
a) determining whether a particular situation requires instituting the T-CPR 
program. 
b) determining whether a caller refuses or is otherwise unable or unwilling to 
provide CPR or receive T-CPR instruction. 
c)  using and appropriately adapting an evidence-based protocol or script for 
providing T-CPR instruction based on individual callers and emergency 
situations presented by callers. 
d) determining when to transfer a caller to another PSAP with 911 
telecommunicators that have received training in CPR.  
Authority 
The Statewide Emergency Communications Board (SECB) Next Generation 9-1-1 Committee (NG9-
1-1) is responsible for the oversight of the standard.  
The appropriate Regional Emergency Services/Communications Boards (ECS/ECBs) will be 
responsible for ensuring compliance of this standard.  
Document History 
Created & Approved:   
 
1 
 
Addendum to Standard 9 1 1 - 3 
 
This addendum, including frequently asked questions, will help further guide PSAPs in choosing a 
telephone-CPR option and comply with the legislation. The NG9-1-1 Committee is providing this 
information to assist PSAPs in determining their direction for training and is not recommending a 
specific training provider.  
TRAINING 
No-Cost T-CPR training:  
 Currently waiting on Resuscitation Quality Improvement (RQI) Program / American Heart 
Association (AHA), who is creating a free, basic T-CPR online program that will include 
certification.  PSAPs choosing this training will also be able to utilize CPR (Adult, Child, and 
Infant/Preemie) pre-arrival protocol cards developed by RQI’s group of medical directors.   
 
Fee-Based Training:   
 PowerPhone 
 T-CPR Certification using PowerPhone’s CACH CPR tool: $229 per person. 
 CACH CPR works on a Microsoft platform that is a significant advance from traditional 
flip cards. 
 CACH T-CPR protocol licenses (electronic protocol card): $998 for two computers and 
includes T-CPR training for two telecommunicators. Each additional telecommunicator 
training: $159. Each additional CACH T-CPR protocol license: $399.  Each T-CPR 
protocol license annual maintenance: $39.90. 
 Training is delivered in an interactive online format with the equivalent to four hours of 
classroom training. 
 Certification in T-CPR meets all of the American Heart Association (AHA) best 
practices and is valid for two years/24 months.  
 EMD Certification through PowerPhone includes T-CPR.   
 Pricing structure subject to change: please contact to confirm and register. 
 Contact: Pam Visel, Account Manager, pam@powerphone.com, 203-350-0338. 
 
 International Academy of Emergency Dispatch (IAED) 
Will be gathering information.  Priority Dispatch uses IAED’s training material.  
 
 APCO IntelliCom (formerly APCO MEDS) 
 Full EMD online training: per person, member price - $419, non-member - $439 
 Recertification: per person, every two years (submit 12 certified education credits/year) 
- $30  
 Flip cards:  paper & electronic guidecards - $529 - $729 (each? Group? Set?)  
 Racks/Binder Set: member price - $329, non-member $419 
 
2 
 
 IntelliCom Electronic Software: $5000 each position ($1000 annual maintenance per 
position, plus one-time cost $10,000 - $20,000 for implementation) 
 Proxy Server, as needed: $3,000 
 Contact: Shellie Johnson, Sales Rep., johnsonsh@apcointl.org, 386-944-2471. 
 
FUNDING 
Funds are available in the amount of $188,000 for 2020 and $118,000 for 2021 to reimburse training 
costs for T-CPR.  Procedures are yet to be determined; however, if you feel you want funding 
reimbursement, reach out to your regional grants coordinator, who can connect with ECN.  It is 
unknown if there will be funds available specifically for T-CPR training reimbursement after 2021. 
QUALITY ASSURANCE (QA) 
The statute does not set criteria for QA other than conducting ongoing QA of your T-CPR program. As 
such, each PSAP will be responsible for creating their own QA program specific to T-CPR by July 1, 
2021.   
FAQ’S                      
 
1. Quality Assurance (QA) – How do we do it for T-CPR calls?  
There is no formal recommendation for a QA procedure. PSAPs may look to other PSAPs for ideas, 
obtain guidelines from their T-CPR vendor, create their own protocol, or seek advice from their 
secondary (EMS) PSAP, as well as a medical director.   
The NG9-1-1 Committee will continue to follow any industry best practices on T-CPR QA guidelines 
and communicate those out to the PSAPs and regions when applicable.  
2.  How long will training take? 
Most, if not all, free basic trainings should take four hours or less.  Trainings that incur a cost may take 
longer.  
3.  Do my Telecommunicators need to be CPR certified? 
No. The statute requires that they only receive T-CPR training. However, the training your PSAP 
chooses may include certification of some kind. 
4.  What if our PSAP is already fully EMD certified?  
You already comply with the statute, and no further action is necessary as long as you remain in 
compliance.   
5.   Our PSAP already transfers all medical calls to a secondary EMS PSAP that complies with 
the statute. Do we need to do anything else?  
 
3 
 
It is highly recommended that Telecommunicators still take T-CPR training in case a situation arises 
where they have to provide T-CPR pre-arrival instructions. Technical issues with regard to call 
transfers are not included in Subdivision 4, Liability Exemption, of the statute.  
6.   If our PSAP is only going to transfer cardiac arrest calls to a secondary, EMS PSAP (as 
opposed to transferring other medicals), do we still need T-CPR training? 
See Option 2(b) of this Standard, “Provide each 911 telecommunicator with appropriate training…”   
Every Telecommunicator should be able to recognize cardiac arrest and provide T-CPR pre-arrival 
instructions in the event a transfer to the EMS PSAP fails for some reason.    
 
7.  If my PSAP does not have a medical director, do we need one?   
No.   
8.  What if my PSAP wants to become full EMD-certified? 
There are fee-based vendors who will provide EMD training. 
9.  How often do we need to re-take T-CPR training? 
That is not determined in the statute, but the recommendation is to follow training protocol guidelines 
(usually every two years for CPR). 
10.  Secondary PSAP EMS Services 
The statute requires PSAPs to ensure that secondary (EMS) PSAP or PSAPs they are transferring their 
T-CPR calls to are also following statutory T-CPR guidelines.  
The secondary PSAPs / emergency medical dispatch service providers will submit letters to each 
regional RAC chair indicating they are in compliance with the statute. This information would Pbe 
retained by each respective region for any primary PSAP in that region who will receive T-CPR 
assistance from one or more of the secondary EMS PSAPs.  
11.  Is there anywhere else to look for information about T-CPR?  
NENA is creating a committee to develop a T-CPR policy, which will offer guidance to states and 
PSAPs passing CPR legislation for compliance.   
Additional resources: 
CPR LifeLinks is another reference - 911.gov: 
https://www.911.gov/project_dispatcherassistedtelephonecpr.html 
ProCPR   
American Health Care Academy 
 
4 
 
Emergency Care & Safety Institute 
 
12.  What if the caller’s safety will be compromised by performing T-CPR? 
The statute does not specifically address this issue; however, the telecommunicator should determine 
whether scene safety would allow for CPR to be performed when a patient is not safely accessible.  
13.   What is the definition of a 911 telecommunicator as it relates to the statute?  
Statue 403.02, Subd.17(c), 911 Telecommunicator.  “911 telecommunicator” means a person 
employed by a public safety answering point (PSAP), an emergency medical dispatch service provider, 
or both, who is qualified to answer incoming emergency telephone calls or provide for the appropriate 
emergency response either directly or through communication with the appropriate public safety 
answering point.  (2019) 
 
 
 
14.   Is there funding available for training, regardless of whether my PSAP becomes T-CPR 
trained or full EMD trained?  
Yes. There are funds available for reimbursement in 2020 and 2021.  It is unknown if funding will be 
available after 2021. If you are looking to use these funds, make your interest known to your regional 
grants and/or regional NG911 representative(s).  
Central Region
Text-to-911 Status
Go Live 
Go Live 
Go Live
Go Live
Project Status
County
Text-to-911 Status
Year 2018
Year 2019
Year 2020
Year 2021
Benton County
Working on a firewall issue.
8/7/2018
Live
Live
Went live on August 7th
Big Stone County
Uses Kandiyohi County for all 911. See Kandiyohi County.
2018
Douglas County
Signed a contract with Airbus.
2018
Will have a Hosted 911 system before the end of the year.
Grant County
Working with vendor (quote received)
2018
Goal to go live end of 2018 or early 2019
Kandiyohi County
Going to go live later this year? 
2018
2020
Go Live planned for June 20, 2020 
Meeker County
Last meeting with Sheriff Cruze-
>
Contract
>
Contracting with Mille Lacs County for 2019.
Mille Lacs County
Regional Text-to-911 PSAP
2017
Live
Morrison County
Working on upgrade. 
>
>
>
Unknown start date.
Otter Tail County
Goal to take their own texts by end of 2018.
2018
2020
Goal to go live summer of 2020
Pope County
Working with vendor (quote received)
2018
Goal to go live end of 2018 or early 2019
Stearns County
Received Board approval. Working with CenturyLink
2018
1/31/2019
Live
Goal to go live in November
Stevens County
Working with vendor (quote received)
2018
Goal to go live end of 2018 or early 2019
Swift County
May choose to have Kandiyohi take their text messages
2018
Later this year or early 2019
Todd County
Contract signed. 
2018
Tentative Go-Live by end of 2018.
Traverse County
Will continue to contract with Mille Lacs County
>
Contract
2020
Starting 2020.
Wadena County
Reviewing proposals from vendors hope to sign in 6-8 wks
2018
Goal to go live end of 2018.
Wilkin County
Working with vendor. Plan to take our own Text-to-911.
>
2019
Plan is to be live in January 2019.
Wright County
Received quote. Need to get final schedule.
2018
1/7/2019
Live
Went Direct SIP in July.
17
14
14
4
TOTALS
Revised 5/14/2020
 
Office of Statewide Radio 
Communications 
Project Title:  
 
VHF Interop Consolidation 
Lead: Dave Pagel      Version: 2020-05-14      Start Date: February 2020 
Goal: Implement the conversion of the 109 existing base stations (MTR2000’s) to 
support simplex multi-channel operation of all licensed VHF Interoperability channels 
via tone-remote signaling from console positions throughout the state. 
Scope:  Develop a rollout procedure and schedule for the OSRC radio shops as well as a 
notification process for all console positions affected by this change in VHF Interop 
resources.  Work with DPS and DECN to ensure dispatchers are provided summary 
information regarding access to these modified resources and the updated protocol for 
VHF conventional resources in Minnesota.  Implement all base station and CCGW 
changes as well as any console resource configurations for MnDOT and State Patrol 
Team:  
MnDOT-OSRC Engineering:   
1. Develop codeplug for all MTR2000 stations.  Assumption is that all current 
VLAW31 stations can accept the new codeplug and will not need modification. 
2. Develop and implement a rollout process for programming each of 109 sites. 
3. Develop console update implementation plan for State Patrol Dispatch. 
4. Implement console update procedure and schedule for all greater Minnesota 
PSAPs with ARMER MCC 7500 consoles. 
5. Define the future disposition of all equipment related to the Variable 
Frequency (VFS) stations and Motobridge equipment. 
 
MnDOT OSRC Radio Shops:   
1. Convert Interop (VLAW31) station (MTR2000) utilizing the developed codeplug  
 
MnDOT RE1s:   
1. Reconfigure CCGW at each of the 109 sites.   
2. Ensure expected operation through reconfiguration of MCC7500 console 
resources as each MTR2000/CCGW has been reprogrammed.   
3. Reconfigure the State Patrol MCC7500 consoles per agreed-upon plan with the 
State Patrol. 
 
Tasks: 
 
Development 
☒  Develop typical codeplug for typical MTR2000 station and test tone-remote 
control through CCGW from MCC 7500 consoles.  Tested in Waters Edge, Duluth 
and St. Cloud. 
☒  Communicate the necessary modifications to the typical codeplug for use in 
the NW and NE regions where several National Interop frequencies are not 
licensed due to the original objections from Canada.  NE region as many stations 
requiring special modification of the channel line-up; NW region has two 
(Washkish and Roosevelt). 
☐  IN PROGRESS …. Create an accounting of all state and local (MCC7500) 
consoles affected.  Contact participating console owners and their radio service 
providers to ensure readiness for scheduled changeover by RAC region and Patrol 
District. 
☒  FINAL …. Develop rollout plan and schedule to convert all sites by Patrol 
District and RAC region  
☒  FINAL …. Develop plan for conversion of State Patrol dispatch consoles with 
Tim Boyer and Jim Stromberg 
 
Deployment 
☐  Rollout MTR2000 codeplugs and reconfigure CCGW’s, notify console owners 
 
☐ SC RAC 
☐ SE RAC 
☐ SW RAC 
☐ Cen RAC 
☐ NW RAC 
☐ NE RAC 
 
☐  Remove Motobridge equipment, XTL2500 VHF radios and power supplies 
 
☐  Auction off Motobridge equipment and the XTL2500 VHF radios 
 
 
Update 03-03-2020: MTR2000 codeplug created/tested at using spare  
 
 
 
 
base and MCC 7500 console in the ROC 
Update 03-31-2020: Confirmed procedure to update resource  
 
 
 
 
configuration within MCC 7500 consoles (Duluth);  
 
 
 
 
first notification to RAC chairs and request for  
 
 
 
 
contacts 
Update 04-09-2020: first notification of draft implementation schedule to 
RE1’s and RMS’s 
Update 04-16-2020: second notification of draft implementation schedule 
to RE1’s and RMS’s 
Update 04-27-2020:   second notification to RAC chairs with draft 
implementation schedule 
Update 05-12-2020: notification of final implementation schedule to 
MnDOT personnel 
Update 05-14-2020: notification of final implementation schedule to RAC 
chairs 
Update 06-15-2020: 
 
Appendix A:   
 
Appendix B:   
 
Office of Statewide Radio 
Communications 
Project Title: Schedule for Updating VHF Interoperability Stations 
Lead: Dave Pagel      Version: 2020-05-012 
     Start Date: May 25, 2020 
Goal: Implement the conversion of the 109 existing base stations (MTR2000’s) and 
associated CCGW’s to support simplex multi-channel operation of all licensed VHF 
Interoperability channels.  Ensure all MCC7500 consoles have conforming access. 
Scope:  Below is the FINAL schedule for conversion of the MTR2000 bases and 
associated CCGW’s.  The conversions at each VHF Interop site will proceed by RAC 
region as shown in the schedule.  MnDOT radio technicians and engineers will make the 
conversions within the time frame noted.  Once all updates at the VHF Interop sites 
within that RAC region are completed, a notification of completion will be sent to the 
county/city contacts.  The VHF Interop resources in all dispatch MCC7500 consoles 
within that RAC region can then be updated per provided instructions. 
Schedule:   FINAL schedule for conversion of MTR2000 bases and CCGW’s.   
South Central RAC:   
Start May 25, 2020 
End June 5, 2020 
MnDOT  
Mankato Shop: 8 sites 
 
------------------  ONE WEEK REVIEW PERIOD --------------------------------------------- 
 
Southeast RAC:    
Start June 15, 2020 
 
End June 26, 2020 
MnDOT: 
Owatonna Shop: 8 sites  
Rochester Shop: 6 sites 
Southwest RAC:    
Start June 29, 2020 
End July 10, 2020 
MnDOT  
Windom Shop: 3 sites  
Marshall Shop: 10 sites  
Willmar Shop: 2 sites 
Central RAC:   
 
Start July 13, 2020  
End July 24, 2020 
MnDOT  
Willmar: 9 sites        St. Cloud:  5 sites        Baxter: 3 sites        Detroit Lakes: 4 sites 
Northwest RAC:    
Start July 27, 2020  
End August 7, 2020 
MnDOT  
Crookston: 3 sites        Thief River:  8 sites        Bemidji: 3 sites        Detroit Lakes: 6 sites 
Northeast RAC:    
Start August 10, 2020 
End August 21, 2020 
MnDOT  
Baxter: 5 sites     Virginia: 7 sites     Gr Rapids: 4 sites     Bemidji: 3 sites     Duluth: 11 sites 
 
Temporary Uplift of Regional 
Interoperability Talkgroup Resources 
 
June 4, 2020 
 
In light of the recent protests and civil unrest occurring in the Twin Cities, there is a high demand for ARMER (Allied 
Radio Matrix for Emergency Response) system talkgroup resources (local, regional and statewide) to support 
response operations. 
 
On June 3, the Minnesota Department of Public Safety division of Emergency Communication Networks (DPS-ECN) 
facilitated the development of a master communications plan for the Twin Cities area.  This plan relied heavily on 
regional ‘METAC’ talkgroups as well as statewide ‘STAC’ and ‘LTAC’ talkgroups. 
 
In an effort to ensure that sufficient interoperable communication resources are available to greater Minnesota 
public safety agencies, the DPS-ECN has collaborated with local, regional and state agency partners to expand the 
coverage area of selected greater Minnesota regional interoperability talkgroups (known as NWs, NEs, CMs, SWs, SRs, 
and SEs). 
 
Effective immediately, and until further notice, the first five regional interoperability talkgroup resources (e.g. NW-2 
through NW-6, SE-2 through SE-6, etc.) of each greater Minnesota region will be have the ability to access all ARMER 
sites except the following Twin Cities metro area sites: 
• 
City Center (zone 1, site 1) 
• 
Dakota County (zone 1, site 3) 
• 
Hennepin County East (zone 2, site 1) 
• 
Hennepin County West (zone 2, site 2) 
• 
Lino Lakes (zone 1, site 2) 
• 
Minneapolis (zone 1, site 9) 
• 
North Branch (zone 1, site 6) 
• 
Norwood (zone 1, site 4) 
• 
Ramsey County (zone 2, site 3) 
• 
Washington County (zone 1, site 5) 
 
The Twin Cities metro area sites were specifically excluded to protect them from inadvertent system loading. The 
remaining regional interoperability talkgroups will maintain their legacy permissions of being able to access all ARMER 
sites within their region plus one ring of sites surrounding the region.   
 
Regional interoperability talkgroups should continue to be used as they always have been but may now also be used 
in support of entities in neighboring region. As an example, law enforcement mutual aid from the northeast region 
may use NE regional interoperability channels if called to the northwest region.   
 
This added capability has technical limitations. Please note the following: 
• 
Dispatch centers are encouraged to engage your ARMER System Administrator now so that you understand 
the implications of patching to another region’s interoperability talkgroup. 
• 
End users should not select a regional or statewide interoperability talkgroup to monitor radio traffic unless 
they are actively involved in the response or have a clear operational need to do so. “Parking” on a talkgroup 
“drags” communication to your local ARMER site. This can have an adverse effect on ARMER system 
performance and inhibit the ability of responders to transmit critical information during an emergency. 
 
The increased coverage areas of the regional interoperability talkgroups is temporary. The end date has not yet been 
identified. Please share this document with dispatch personnel, technical personnel and end users. 
 
If you have technical questions, please direct them to your local ARMER System Administrator. Please contact DPS-
ECN ARMER Program Manager Jim Stromberg (james.stromberg@state.mn.us) with any unresolved questions.   
