 
Brownwood City Council Agenda 
Regular Called Meeting 
9:00 a.m., Tuesday, June 9, 2020 
Council Chambers, City Hall 
501 Center Avenue, Brownwood, Texas 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                
The City Council of the City of Brownwood, Texas, reserves the right to meet in closed, executive 
session on any of the items listed below should the need arise and if authorized by Title 5, Chapter 
551, of the Texas Government Code. 
 
The City Council may deliberate and/or act on the following items: 
  1. 
Call to Order 
  2. 
Pledge of Allegiance 
  3. 
Invocation 
  4. 
Items to be withdrawn 
  5. 
Introductions, Announcements, and Recognitions 
 
  6. 
Citizen Presentations 
Any citizen who desires to address the City Council on a matter not included on the agenda 
may do so at this time. The City Council may not deliberate on items presented under this 
agenda item.  To comply with the provisions of the Open Meetings Act, the Council 
respectfully requests that prior to addressing Council that each person submit a citizen 
presentation form that is located at the entryway to the Council Chambers, stating your 
name, address, and topic of presentation.  All presentations are subject to a five (5) minute 
time limit. 
 
 
 
  7. 
Approval of Minutes 
 
A. 
Regular Called Meeting – May 26, 2020 
 
  8. 
Claims and Accounts 
  
  9. 
Requests and Presentations 
A. 
The Brownwood Public Library will report to Council about recent activities. 
 
10. 
Ordinances and Resolutions 
A. 
Council may consider, discuss and/or approve an amendment to the City’s 
ordinance amending Ordinance No. 19-14 setting charges, fees, rates and deposits 
for customers on the Brownwood water, sewer, and sanitation system by amending 
Section I, Item 1.F. “Service Fees” for work orders involving staff time after normal 
operating hours for Fridays from 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.    
 
B. 
Consider a resolution relieving the County Surveyor of any obligation to review 
City plats. 
 
11. 
Reports 
 
A. 
COVID-19 update 
 
 
 
 
 
Council Agenda- June 9, 2020 
Page 2 of2 
12. 
Executive Session: 
The City Council may convene into a closed executive session in the Haynes Conference 
Room, pursuant to the provisions of 
the Open Meetings Law, Chapter 551, Government 
Code Vernon's Annotated, in accordance with the authority contained in the following 
section: 
551.087 - Deliberation Regarding Economic Development Negotiations 
551.072 - Deliberation Regarding Real Property 
551.071 - Consultation with Attorney 
A. 
Amendment to an Economic Development Agreement between the BMDD, the 
City and Brownwood CF 
A Series LLC. 
B. 
Lease of 
city property to a retail business. 
13. 
Action as a result of 
the Executive Session 
A. 
Approve an amendment to the Economic Development Agreement between the 
BMDD, the City and Brownwood CF 
A Series LLC. 
14. 
Adjournment 
Submitted by: 
rµ.: w~._ 
Tim Airheart, Assistant City Manager 
Approved as to Form: 
Pat Chesser, City Attorney 
Certification 
I certify that the above notice of 
meeting was posted on the bulletin board in City Hall, 501 Center 
Avenue, Brownwood, Texas, on June 5, 2020. ·I further certify that the media was properly 
notified. A list of 
those notified will be available upon request. 
~~ 
Special Accommodations 
This facility is wheelchair accessible and accessible parking spaces are available. Requests for 
accommodation or interpretive services must be made twenty-four (24) hours prior to this meeting. 
Please contact Christi Wynn at (325) 646-5775 x 
1162 for further information.· 
