Board of Adjustment 
February 25, 2020 
 
 
Board Members Present 
Robert Miller, Chairperson 
Pat Morgan 
Jim Norton 
Janet Stovall 
Connor Barron 
Colleen Aguilar – Epstein 
George Marks 
Phillip Pierceall 
 
Absent 
John Peskuski   
Tianle Tong 
 
Staff 
Michelle D’Andrea, Deputy City Attorney  
Selso Mata, Chief Building Inspections 
Lacey Thornton, Sr. Administrative Assistant 
Patti Hoffer, Code Compliance Representative 
Christina Day, Planning Director 
Echo Rexroad, Health 
 
Chairperson Robert Miller called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m. on February 25, 2020 in the Senator 
Florence Shapiro Council Chambers.  A quorum was present and notice of the meeting had been posted for 
the time and manner required by law.  
 
The following matters were discussed: 
 
1. Public comments:  There was no public comment. 
 
2.   Approval of Minutes from February 11, 2020: 
 
Board Member Janet Stovall made the motion to approve the minutes from February 11, 2020; Board 
Member George Marks seconded the motion.  The Board voted 8-0 in favor of approving the minutes. 
 
Chairperson Robert Miller admitted all documents and testimony given into the official Board of 
Adjustment record.  
 
3.   VARIANCE #20-03Z  4200 14th Street:  A request to vary from Subsection 20.100 (.3) and 20.200 
(.2) of Division 4, Article 20, Zoning Ordinance No. 2015-5-2 as amended, to allow a fence to;  
a. 
be constructed of fiberglass material in lieu of the required masonry or reinforced 
concrete and,  
b. 
exceed the maximum of 8 feet in height by 16 feet for an overall of 24 feet in height. 
This appeal is requested by property owner Amy Adcox with Allied Waste Systems Inc., to 
be represented by Weaver Consultants Group.      
 
Patti Hoffer, Code Compliance Representative, gave a presentation on the variance request.  Ms. Hoffer 
stated the staff recommendation of the variance request is approval.  
 
Ms. Hoffer answered questions from the Board. 
 
Christina Day, Planning Director, answered questions from the Board regarding zoning in that area. 
  
Selso Mata, Chief Building Inspector, answered questions from the Board regarding the purpose of the 
variance request. 
 
Charles Marsh, Applicant Representative, testified to the noise study conducted in determining the location, 
height, and material of the sound wall. 
 
Mr. Marsh answered questions from the Board. 
 
Echo Rexroad, Environmental Quality Manager, answered questions from the Board as to the future 
compliance of the noise ordinance. 
 
Mr. Marsh spoke to the four factors in the variance request. 
 
Amy Adcox, Applicant Representative, answered questions from the Board pertaining to construction of 
the wall and the source of the sound. 
 
Chairperson Robert Miller opened the floor to public comment. 
 
Christine Brown, neighboring homeowner, testified in support of the variance request to build a wall to 
help reduce the noise coming into her neighborhood from Allied Waste Systems. Ms. Brown testified to 
the impact the noise level has on her family’s daily life. 
 
Ms. Brown answered questions from the Board. 
 
Chairperson Robert Miller closed the floor to public comment, and discussion was confined to the Board. 
 
Board Member Pat Morgan made a motion to approve Variance Request #20-03Z (a) as amended, subject 
to the rules and regulations of setbacks of the City of Plano. Board Member Connor Barron seconded the 
motion. The Board voted 7-1 in favor of the motion. Therefore, the variance request was approved. 
 
Board Member Pat Morgan made a motion to approve Variance Request #20-03Z (b) as amended, subject 
to the rules and regulations of setbacks of the City of Plano. Board Member Phillip Pierceall seconded the 
motion. The Board voted 7-1 in favor of the motion. Therefore, the variance request was approved. 
 
4. Items for future Agenda. 
Lacey Thornton, Sr. Administrative Assistant, testified there are no items for future agenda. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 4:00 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________________ 
                                   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Robert Miller, Chairperson 
 
 
 
APPEAL SUMMARY 
#20-04S 
                         
 
APPLICANT: 
Property owner, HQII Partners, Ltd. To be represented by Robert Evans 
with O’Brian Architects.  
 
 
 
ADDRESS:  
5801 Headquarters Drive 
 
ZONING: 
 
PD65-CB1, Dallas North Tollway Overlay District 
                                  
 
 
 
 
 
APPLICANT REQUEST:  
The applicant is requesting to vary from Subsection 22.300 (.2) (C.) (i) of Division 4, Article 22, 
Zoning Ordinance No. 2015-5-2 as amended, to allow a freestanding, general business sign to 
have a reduced setback from the required 30 feet to an adjoining property line.  Applicant is 
asking for a 24 foot variance, resulting in a setback of 6 feet from the adjoining property line. 
 
 
ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS:      
Subsection 22.300 (.2) (C.) (i) states: Required setback…shall be located a minimum of 30 feet 
from adjoining private property lines… 
 
STAFF FINDINGS:     
This property is located on the northwest corner of Headquarters Drive and Bishop Road, east of 
Dallas North Tollway in PD65-CB1 zoning and the Dallas North Tollway overlay district.  The 
building is currently under construction and will be a multi-tenant office building.  
 
The sign meets overall size requirements and the required 8’ or greater set back from the front 
property line.  
 
Per the applicant, due to the physical nature of the site, the driveway and building columns are 
next to the required sign setback area, preventing installation of the sign. The adjacent property 
owner plans to install garage ventilation, which will prevent them installing a sign close to the 
property line.  The adjacent property owner has provided a letter in support of the sign location.   
 
 
Staff recommends approval. 
 
 
HEADQUARTERS DR
BOZEMAN DR
BISHOP RD
CLARA DR
OSBORN PKWY
KATE AVE
KNOX
D
R
PAM ST
PRESLEY A
V
E
ASHMILL DR
BALTIC BLV
D
CLAUDE DR
ELIJAH DR
Notification Buffer (250 ft)
Subject Property
Streets
Item Submitted:
Title:
Zoning:
20-04S
5801 Headquarters Dr.
PD65-CB1
Source: City of Plano
±
0
440
880
220
Feet
From:
Susan Clark
To:
BOA Comments
Subject:
Variance#20-05S 10145 Independence Parkway
Date:
Monday, June 1, 2020 8:09:23 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the City of Plano network. Do not click links or open
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
That ugly monstrosity has already taken enough of my view. I recommend against the
variance.
