NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING & MEETING
Notice is hereby given that the Taylor County Commissioners’ Court will meet on Tuesday upon public hearing,  
June 9, 2020 at 9:00 a.m. in  regular session in  the Commissioners’ Courtroom, 1915 Taylor County Courthouse 
(1st floor) 301 Oak Street, Abilene, Texas, to consider the following items:
Public Hearing: Pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 293C of the Texas Health & Safety Code, Taylor County will
hold a public hearing to discuss amending the rate used to determine the amount of mandatory payments that 
Taylor County intends to require from local hospitals during fiscal year 2020 
1.
Call meeting to order
2.
 Invocation and Pledge of Allegiance
3.
Consider approval of minutes of previous meetings and adopt agenda
4.
Consider approval of budget adjustments and transfers, if any
5.
Consider approval of bills for payment and ratify payroll
6.
Public Comment  in accordance with Local Government Code 551.007
7.
Consider approval of an order amending the Fiscal year 2020 mandatory payment rate for the Taylor County Health Care 
Provider Participation Program and any appropriate action
8.
Receive 3rd Quarter Investment Report from County Treasurer
9.
Consider approval of renewal for Auditor’s Crime Bond Policy and any appropriate action
10.
Consider approval of final replat of lots 22 & 23 in the South Fork Addition located in Precinct 3 and any appropriate action
11.
Consider approval of certification report reflecting that all applicable Taylor County employees are compliant with 
Cybersecurity awareness training requirements for FY2020 of Section 2054.5191 Texas Government Code and any 
appropriate action
12.
Discuss and consider drought conditions on outdoor burning and possible burn ban and any appropriate action
13.
Discuss and consider Taylor County Office Operations due to COVID-19 spread and imminent threat to public health and 
safety of our community and employees and any appropriate action
14.
Adjourn
     
NOTE:
Enumerated agenda items are assigned numbers for ease of reference only, and will not 
necessarily be considered by the Commissioners’ Court in that particular order.
                   
DOWNING A. BOLLS, JR., TAYLOR COUNTY JUDGE
This is to certify that the above Notice of Meeting was posted on the Taylor County website and on the bulletin at the Taylor 
County Courthouse, Abilene, TX on the 5th day of June 2020, at 3:30 p.m., within such time as required by law.
       
    LARRY G. BEVILL, TAYLOR COUNTY CLERK
NOTICE REGARDING PUBLIC PARTICIPATION:
Governor Greg Abbott has granted a temporary suspension of certain rules to allow for telephone or video conference public meetings in an effort to reduce in-
person meetings that assemble large groups of people, due to COVID-19 (coronavirus) public health emergency.
 In an effort to reduce the spread of the virus, the Commissioner Court meetings will be livestreamed on 
https://www.facebook.com/TaylorCountyCommissionersCourt/  and limited to in person attendance by the public.  Individuals will be able to address the Court 
by filling out the Public Comment form located on www.taylorcountytexas.org under the Calendar Date of Court on the homepage and emailing the comments 
to the Administrative Assistant at lewist@taylorcountytexas.org by 3 p.m. on Monday prior to the Tuesday meeting in efforts to receive all request for Court 
comment.  
