CITY OF ST. FRANCIS 
NOTICE OF MEETING TO ADJOURN BOARD OF REVIEW TO A LATER DATE 
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, the City of St. Francis, Milwaukee County Board of Review will meet on the 9th 
day of June, 2020 at 10:00 a.m. at the St. Francis Civic Center, 3400 East Howard Avenue, St. Francis 
Wisconsin for the purpose of calling the Board of Review into session during the forty-five day period 
beginning on the 4th Monday of April, pursuant to Sec. 70.47(1), Wis. Stats. 
Due to the fact the assessment roll is not completed at this time, the Board of Review will be adjourned 
until Monday, August 17, 2020 at 10:00 a.m. 
Pursuant to Sec. 70.47(2), Wis. Stats: 
No person shall be allowed to appear before the Board of Review, to testify to the Board by telephone or 
to contest the amount of any assessment of real or personal property if the person has refused a 
reasonable written request by certified mail of the assessor to enter onto property to conduct an exterior 
view of the real or personal property being assessed. 
After the first meeting of the Board of Review and before the Board’s final adjournment, no person who 
is scheduled to appear before the Board of Review may contact, or provide information to, A Member of 
the Board about that person’s objection except at a session of the Board. 
No person may appear before the Board of Review, testify to the Board by telephone or contest the 
amount of any assessment unless, at least 48 hours before the first meeting of the Board or at least 48 
hours before the objection is heard if the objection is allowed under Sec. 70.47(#)(a), Wis. Stats. That 
person provides to the Clerk of the Board of Review notice as to whether the person will ask for removal 
under Sec. 70.47(6m) (a), Wis. Stats. and, if so, which Member will be removed and the person’s 
reasonable estimate of the length of time that the hearing will take. 
When appearing before the Board, the person shall specify, in writing, the person’s estimate of the value 
of the land and of the improvements that are the subject of the person’s objection and specify the 
information that the persona used to arrive at that estimate. 
No person may appear before the Board of Review, testify to the Board by telephone or object to a 
valuation; if that valuation was made by the Assessor or the Objector using the income method; unless 
the person supplies to the Assessor all of the information about income and expenses, as specified in the 
manual under Sec. 73.03(2a), Wis. Stats., that the Assessor requests.  The City of St. Francis has an 
ordinance for the confidentiality of information about income and expenses that is provided to the 
Assessor under this paragraph and shall provide exceptions for persons   using the information in the 
discharge of duties imposed by law or of the duties of their office or by order of a court.  The information 
that is provided under this paragraph is not subject to the right of inspection and copying under Sec. 
19.35(1) Wis. Stats., unless a court determines before the first meeting of the Board of Review that the 
information is inaccurate. 
NOTICE THAT THE ASSESSMENT ROLL IS OPEN FOR EXAMINATION AND OPEN BOOK 
Pursuant to Sec. 70.45, Wis. Stats, the assessment roll for the Year 2020 assessment will be open for 
examination on July 7, 2020 from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
Additionally, Accurate Assessment will be available at the St. Francis Civic Center, 3400 East Howard 
Avenue, Wisconsin on the 7th day of July, 2020 and the 8th day of July, 2020 from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.  
Instructional material will be provided at the Open Book to persons who wish to object to valuations under 
Sec. 70.47, Wis. Stats.  If you wish to make an appointment, contact Laura Bates at (800) 770-3927. 
Notice is hereby given this 2nd day of June, 2020 by: 
Anne B. Uecker, MMC/WCPC 
City Clerk/Treasurer 
