 
 
AGENDA 
 
REGULAR MEETING OF THE CITY COUNCIL AND JOINT MEETING OF THE CLOVERDALE COMMUNITY 
DEVELOPMENT SUCCESSOR AGENCY BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
 
WEDNESDAY, June 10, 2020 
 
PUBLIC BUSINESS SESSION:  6:00 p.m. 
Location: Cloverdale Performing Arts Center,  
209 N. Cloverdale Boulevard, Cloverdale, Ca 95425 
 
 
The Cloverdale City Council welcomes you to its meetings that are typically scheduled for the 2nd and 4th 
Wednesday of the month.  Your interest and participation are encouraged and appreciated.  Please silence all 
pagers, cellular telephones and other communications devices upon entering the meeting. 
 
PLEASE NOTE 
In order to minimize the spread of the COVID 19 virus, this Regular Meeting will be conducted pursuant to 
the provisions of the Governor’s Executive Order N-29-20. Some or all members of the City Council will be 
participating in the meeting remotely via teleconferencing or other electronic means consistent with 
Executive Order N-29-20, which suspended certain requirements of the Brown Act.  Please refer to the end 
of the agenda for instructions related to public comment and attending the meeting. 
 
ADDRESSING THE CITY COUNCIL/PUBLIC COMMENT: 
 
For this meeting Public Comments may be made in person or through the use of Zoom. Emailed comments 
will become part of the record and viewable online and in the City Clerk’s Office. Please refer to the end of 
the agenda for further instruction. Per direction provided by the Sonoma County Health Officer, a facial 
covering is required to be worn in all City facilities. 
 
When asked to do so by the Mayor, those wishing to address the City Council in person are asked to step up 
to the podium.  Speak directly into the microphone so everyone in the audience can hear your comments and 
so they’ll be recorded into the official record.  State your name and City of Residence for the record.  Per City 
Council Policy, three (3) minutes are typically allotted to each speaker.  However, Council may at its discretion 
revise the amount of time allotted.   
 
We may disagree, but we will be respectful of one another. All comments will be directed to the issue at 
hand and addressed to the City Council. Personal attacks are unacceptable. 
 
VIEWING OF MEETING: 
As a public service to the community, regular City Council meetings are streamed via live webcast on YouTube at: 
https://bit.ly/2R2Odm4 on day and time of meetings. Please refer to the end of the agenda for instructions on 
how to view the meeting and provide public comment using Zoom:  https://bit.ly/3dCaYXi 
Zoom Instructions:  https://bit.ly/2A8Mx4M 
 
DISABLED OR SPECIAL NEEDS ACCOMMODATION:  In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you 
need assistance to attend or participate in a City Council meeting, please contact the City Clerk’s office at 894-
2521.  Notification at least 48-hours prior to the meeting will assist the City Clerk in assuring that reasonable 
accommodations are made to provide accessibility to the meeting. 
 
WAIVER WARNING:  If you challenge decisions/directions of the City Council in court, you may be limited to 
raising only those issues you or someone else raised at public hearings(s) described in this Agenda, or in written 
correspondence delivered to the City of Cloverdale at, or prior to, the public hearing(s). 
 
City Council Regular Meeting Agenda – June 10, 2020 
Page 2 of 5 
 
 
CONVENE PUBLIC BUSINESS SESSION – 6:00 p.m.  
 
OPENING: 
• 
Call to Order 
• 
Pledge of Allegiance 
• 
Roll Call 
• 
Conflict of Interest Declaration 
• 
Agenda Review – Regular Session (Changes and/or Deletions) 
 
PUBLIC COMMENTS: 
Any person wishing to speak to the City Council on any item not listed on the agenda may do so at this time. 
Members of the public have the right to speak on any items on the Council Agenda during that item. Pursuant 
to the Brown Act, the City Council is not allowed to consider issues or take action on any item not listed on the 
agenda. Each person wishing to speak must go to the podium when advised by the Mayor and speak directly 
into the microphone. Each speaker will be limited to three minutes unless additional time is authorized by the 
Mayor. Public Comments may be made in person or through Zoom at: https://bit.ly/2ZkYfns.  Emailed 
comments will become part of the record and viewable online and in the City Clerk’s Office. 
 
PROCLAMATIONS/PRESENTATIONS: (10 minutes) 
1. 
Proclamation Proclaiming the Month of June as LGBTQ Pride Month 
 
2. 
Student Liaison Reports 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR: 
All items under Consent Calendar will be considered together by one action of the Council unless any Council 
Member or member of the public requests that an item be removed and considered separately.   
 
3. 
Approval of Previous Meetings Minutes  
 
Recommendation:  By motion, approve the City Council May 27, 2020 regular meeting minutes. 
 
4. 
Revision to the Current Bail Schedule to Reflect the Addition of California Vehicle Code Parking 
Violations 
 
Recommendation: Adopt a resolution entitled, “A resolution of the City Council of the City of 
Cloverdale, revising the current bail schedule to reflect California Vehicle Code Parking Violations.” 
 
5. 
Approving an Amendment to the 2019-20 Budget and Authorizing a Contract with Telstar 
Instruments, to Procure and Install Chlorine Analyzer Pumps and Vault at the Cloverdale Wastewater 
Treatment Plant in the Amount of not-to-exceed of $44,246.40 
 
Recommendation: Adopt a resolution entitled, “A Resolution of the City Council of the City Of 
Cloverdale Amending the 2019-20 Budget and authorizing the City Manager to Execute a Contract with 
Telstar Instruments, to procure and install two chlorine analyzer pumps and a vault at the Wastewater 
Treatment Plant in the amount of not-to-exceed $44,226.40.” 
AB343 Requirements: Any writings or documents provided to a majority of the City Council regarding any item 
on this agenda will be made available for public inspection in the City Hall offices located at 124 N. Cloverdale 
Blvd., Cloverdale CA 95425 during normal business hours. 
City Council Regular Meeting Agenda – June 10, 2020 
Page 3 of 5 
 
6. 
Approving Submittal of a Local Early Action Planning (LEAP) Grant Application and Enter into an 
Agreement with the State Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) for the 
Disbursement of Funds 
Recommendation: Adopt a resolution entitled, “A resolution of the City Council of the City of Cloverdale 
authorizing an application for and receipt of local government planning support grant program funds.” 
 
COMMUNICATIONS:  Council may discuss at this time written communications sent to Council members since 
the last council meeting. Written communication to be discussed will be listed below, if any.  
 
• 
Communication from Kaylan Uclaray – 8 Can’t Wait Campaign (06/04/2020) 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS:   
Public Hearing items will begin at the time shown, or as close thereafter as possible, to allow for completion 
of the item. 
 
7. 
Cloverdale Landscaping and Lighting Assessment District – Public Hearing, Approval of the Annual       
Engineer’s Report, and Resolutions Authorizing Assessments for Fiscal Year 2020-21 
 
- 
Budget Worksheet (06/08/2020) 
 
Recommendation: Adopt the following resolutions entitled: 
 
a. A resolution approving the annual engineer’s report, confirming the assessment diagram and the 
annual assessment amounts, and authorizing the levying and collection of assessments for fiscal 
year 2020-21 for the Cloverdale Landscaping and Lighting Assessment District for Zone 1 (Pursuant 
to the Landscaping and Lighting Act of 1972) 
 
b. A resolution approving the annual engineer’s report, confirming the assessment diagram and the 
annual assessment amounts, and authorizing the levying and collection of assessments for fiscal 
year 2020-21 for the Cloverdale Landscaping and Lighting Assessment District for Zone 2 (Pursuant 
to the Landscaping and Lighting Act of 1972) 
 
c. A resolution approving the annual engineer’s report, confirming the assessment diagram and the 
annual assessment amounts, and authorizing the levying and collection of assessments for fiscal 
year 2020-21 for the Cloverdale Landscaping and Lighting Assessment District for Zone 3, 4, 5, 6, 
and 7 (Pursuant to the Landscaping and Lighting Act of 1972) 
 
NEW BUSINESS:  
 
8. 
Presentation from Sonoma County Transportation Authority (SCTA) on the GoSonoma Transportation 
Sales Tax Measure Proposed for the November 2020 Ballot and Consider Taking Action 
 
- 
Information Sheet and Presentation attachment (06/08/2020) 
- 
Comments Received from Eris Weaver (06/08/2020) 
 
Recommendation: Approve the GoSonoma Act Expenditure Plan of the Sonoma County Transportation 
Authority as required by Public Utilities Code section 180206(b). 
 
9. 
Adoption of the City of Cloverdale Budget for Fiscal Year 2020-2021  
 
City Council Regular Meeting Agenda – June 10, 2020 
Page 4 of 5 
 
Recommendation: Adopt a resolution entitled, “A Resolution of the City Council of the City of 
Cloverdale Adopting the Fiscal Year 2020-21 City of Cloverdale Operating Budget.” 
 
SUBCOMMITTEE ITEMS:  
 
SUBCOMMITTEE REPORTS: (VERBAL REPORTS: 15 minutes) 
 
• 
Finance, Administration & Police - Next Meeting: July 7, 2020, 4:00 p.m. 
o Local Purchasing Policy 
o Reopening and recovery efforts after the COVID-19 Emergency  
• 
Planning & Sustainability - Next Meeting: June 16, 2020, 4:00 p.m. 
o Cloverdale Sculpture Trail Installation Procedures 
o Permitting of Street Closure for Outdoor Dining/Re-opening Events 
• 
Public Works - Next Meeting: July 28, 2020, 4:00 p.m. 
o Signage on Porterfield Creek Walking Path   
o Annual SB-1 Project - Status Update on Planned Improvements 
• 
Joint City/Fire District - Next Meeting: June 8, 2020, 5:30 p.m. 
o Update on preparation for the upcoming Fire Season 
o Planning for 4th of July Activities and Fireworks  
• 
Joint City/School District– Next Meeting: June 15, 2020, 5:00 p.m. 
o Update on 3-way Stop Sign at Intersection of N. Cloverdale Blvd. and North Street  
o Update on 2020 Community Pool Season 
• 
Homelessness Community Advisory Group – Next Meeting: Date to be Determined, 5:00 p.m. 
o Continue Review of Draft Strategic Plan Goals 5-7 
o Review Priority Ranking Sheets 
 
COUNCIL REPORTS (VERBAL REPORTS: 15 minutes) 
 
INFORMATIONAL REPORTS: 
• 
Water Supply Outlook and Drought Monitor Map (06/05/2020) 
 
LEGISLATIVE REPORTS & DIRECTION: 
• 
Authorize Letter of Support for SB 1312 Requiring Electrical Corporations to Notify the Public Utilities 
Commission, Office of Emergency Services, and Department of Forestry and Fire Protection of a 
Potential Public Safety Power Shutoff (PSPS). 
 
• 
Letter to California Senators and Assembly Members Requesting Help with the Proposed Distribution 
of CARES Act Funds to Local Cities 
 
STATUS UPDATE ON CURRENT EMERGENCY: Discussion and possible direction related to COVID-19. 
 
CITY MANAGER/CITY ATTORNEY REPORT(S): 
 
COUNCIL DIRECTION ON FUTURE AGENDA ITEMS:  
 
ADJOURNMENT: Adjourn to a regular meeting of the City Council and Cloverdale Community Development 
Successor Agency, June 24, 2020 for Closed Session at 5:00 p.m. (at the City Hall Conference Room 124 N. 
Cloverdale Blvd., Cloverdale, CA 95425) and Public Business Session at 6:00 p.m. (at the Cloverdale Performing 
Arts Center 209 N. Cloverdale Blvd., Cloverdale, CA 95425).  
 
The City does not transcribe its proceedings.  Anyone who desires a verbatim record of this meeting should 
arrange for attendance by a court reporter or for other acceptable means of recordation.  Such arrangements 
City Council Regular Meeting Agenda – June 10, 2020 
Page 5 of 5 
 
will be at the sole expense of the individual requesting the recordation.  Questions about this agenda should 
be directed to City Hall at 707-894-2521.  State of California, County of Sonoma, City of Cloverdale.  
 
CERTIFICATION:  I, Irene Camacho-Werby, City Clerk, do hereby declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing 
agenda was posted on: (1) the outdoor bulletin board at the City Hall, 124 N. Cloverdale Blvd., Cloverdale, 
California, and (2) Cloverdale Performing Arts Center, 209 N. Cloverdale Blvd., Cloverdale, CA 95425; and made 
available for public review, prior to or on this 5th day of June 2020, at or before 5:00 p.m.    
 
 
   
 
  
 
PLEASE NOTE 
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING THIS CITY COUNCIL MEETING 
 
This Meeting will be conducted pursuant to the provisions of the Governor’s Executive Order N-29-20, 
which suspended certain requirements of the Brown Act. In order to minimize the spread of the COVID 19 
virus, if you wish to participate in the meeting please do the following: 
 
• 
Meeting Attendance is welcome either in-person or through the use of Zoom at: https://bit.ly/3dCaYXi. 
Webinar ID: 836 7030 2470/ Password: 435285 
 
• 
Zoom Attendees will be muted until they are called upon for Public Comment.  To make a public 
comment, use the “raise hand” 
 icon on your smart device or desktop computer, or dial *9 if you are 
using just your telephone.  Please listen carefully for the Chair or City Clerk to address you by name (or 
phone number) and for the audible Zoom notification that you have been unmuted. Once you begin 
your public comment, your three (3) minutes will begin. Zoom Instructions:  https://bit.ly/2A8Mx4M 
 
• 
If you would prefer to submit public comment in writing, please email your comments to 
iwerby@ci.cloverdale.ca.us. If you are commenting on a specific agenda item or items, please state the 
agenda item number(s) in the subject line of the email. All comments received via email will be 
provided to the Subcommittee in writing and included as a part of the record of the meeting.  
 
The City of Cloverdale thanks you in advance for taking all precautions to prevent spreading the COVID 19 
virus. 
