  SAN JOAQUIN COUNCIL 
OF 
GOVERNMENTS 
 
INTERAGENCY TRANSIT COMMITTEE 
555 E. Weber Avenue, Stockton, CA 95202 
 
Tuesday, June 9, 2020 
3:00 PM 
 
https://sjcog.zoom.us/j/97985659244 
 
Teleconference Number:  1-669-900-6833 
Participant Code: 979 8565 9244 
Attention Callers: Please mute the call unless speaking 
Note: If you don't have access to a smart device or a computer with a webcam & a mic, you 
can dial in using the teleconference number and meeting ID above.  
NOTICE 
Coronavirus COVID-19 
In accordance with Governor Newsom’s Executive Order N-33-20, The San Joaquin 
Council of Governments and staff will be participating in this meeting via 
teleconference.  In the interest of maintaining appropriate social distancing, members of 
the public may participate in the meeting electronically using the Zoom link, and shall have 
the right to observe and offer public comment at the appropriate time during this meeting. 
To be recognized to speak, please use the “raise hand” or chat feature in Zoom. 
We have also provided a call-in number, as identified on this Agenda, and encourage you to 
attend by telephone. To be recognized to speak, press *9 to signal the moderator. 
The San Joaquin Council of Governments is in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and will make all 
reasonable accommodations for the disabled to participate in employment, programs and facilities. Persons requiring 
assistance or auxiliary aid in order to participate should contact Rebecca Calija at (209) 235-0600 at least 24 hours 
prior to the meeting. 
 
A G E N D A 
 
 
1. Call to Order / Introductions  
 
2. Minutes: May 4, 2020  
 
 
 
 
 
 
       ACTION 
 
3. Public Comment 
 
1
4. Final Fiscal Year 2020/21 Unmet Transit Needs Report
       ACTION 
5. Election of Chair and Vice Chair (No Staff Report)
       ACTION 
6. Transit Operator Open Forum:
A. Discussion on Ridership Trends (No Staff Report) 
           DISCUSSION 
7. Other Matters of Business
8. Meeting Adjourned to Monday, July 6, 2020 at 1:30 p.m.
2
AGENDA ITEM 2 
3
INTERAGENCY TRANSIT COMMITTEE (ITC) 
San Joaquin Council of Governments 
555 E Weber Avenue, Stockton, CA 95202 
Monday, May 4, 2020
MINUTES 
1.
Call Meeting to Order
The ITC virtual meeting was called to order at 1:31 p.m. by Ryan Niblock.
Committee Members Present
John Andoh
City of Escalon 
Jay Davidson
City of Lathrop 
Georgia Graham
City of Lodi 
Julia Tyack
City of Lodi 
Juan Portillo
City of Manteca 
Elizabeth Quilici
City of Ripon 
Ed Lovell
City of Tracy 
Jayne Pramod
City of Tracy 
Jordan Peterson
San Joaquin Regional Rail Commission 
George Lorente
San Joaquin Regional Transit District 
Kimberly Gayle
San Joaquin Regional Transit District 
SJCOG Staff Present
Diane Nguyen
Deputy Director 
Ryan Niblock
Senior Regional Planner 
Joel Campos
Assistant Regional Planner 
Ashley Goldlist
Assistant Regional Planner 
Melissa Ablang
Administrative Clerk II 
Others Present
Dylan Casper
San Joaquin Regional Rail Commission 
2.
Minutes: March 2, 2020:
It was moved/seconded (Peterson/Graham) to approve the minutes of March 2, 2020. Motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
3.
Public Comment:
None.
4.
Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act Transit Funding:
Ryan Niblock announced that $25 billion has been made available through the CARES Act for public
transportation and apportionments to urbanized areas (UZA) have been issued. It is coming in the form
of 5307 funds, although it is a mixture of 5307, 5340, and 5337. The rural amount was also made
available to the state. Further, the funds that are made available through the CARES Act are available
at 100% federal share without a local match required and there’s also no time limit on the obligation of
the funds. However, funding would need to be tied back to the impacts of COVID-19. Staff has met
with RTD regarding the use of the funds but has not met with the cities of Lodi, Manteca and Tracy
yet, but it needs to happen because the jurisdictions need split letters to get the funds moving. Mr.
Niblock asked the members if they have a preference on how the funds should be split and what their
needs are relating to COVID-19.
4
Ms. Graham said Lodi is not sure how they will use their funds and asked whether anybody has any 
ideas. Transit is going to rebound very slowly, so Lodi’s transit operations contractor is taking proactive 
steps to gear up for that and they’re negotiating a one-year option on the contract that may include some 
of those terms. 
 
Mr. Lovell said Transportation Development Act (TDA) funds are going to be reduced drastically so 
the funds can be used to stretch out those dollars. 
 
Mr. Portillo stated the revenue for the transit center rental will be a lot less and all that money gets put 
into transit to pay for the subsidy. He is open to meeting with Ripon to see what projects they could use 
the funding for. Manteca also needs to get ready to have their own yard and get some infrastructure in 
place to go electric. Transit in Manteca has moved to the Community Development Department (CDD) 
so Johanna Herrera would like to be present for the meeting with COG regarding the split letters. 
Further, Manteca is spending funds on a lot of cleaning so operational costs will go up.  
 
Mr. Niblock said it sounds like it will be operations across the board. He asked Mr. Andoh if he is 
aware of a CARES Act split of rural funds. Mr. Andoh indicated Caltrans issued a letter to all the rural 
operators with their amounts. Escalon is getting $20,000 and he thinks RTD is getting somewhere close 
to $1 million. They’ve only done 33% of it on the first round and will be doing additional rounds as 
they go down the line per the letter. 
 
Mr. Niblock said staff would like to include those that serve UZAs in the meetings to get the split letters 
completed. He asked the members if there are any other discussions or impacts they’d like to share with 
the group.  
 
Ms. Tyack indicated that CALACT is offering transit talks every Wednesday and they’re really helpful. 
One of the big priorities of this funding is to keep employees employed as opposed to having people 
go on unemployment. 
 
Mr. Portillo said Manteca still has regular service although ridership is down about 75%. 
 
Mr. Lorente said RTD’s ridership has dropped about 80% depending on the service you look at. As far 
as plans for the CARES Act, they’ve responded with efforts including cleaning and sanitizing buses, 
facilities and equipment as well as keeping a close eye on TDA funds. If there is any information the 
members would like to share with RTD, they’d like to incorporate it into their planning for the TDA. 
Further, there was an article that indicated it would take at least twelve months to recover from this and 
it seems like a fair assessment. 
 
Mr. Niblock said he will be in touch with the members this week to get these meetings set up. 
 
*Elizabeth Quilici, Jay Davidson, John Andoh and Kimberly Gayle joined the meeting during this 
discussion item.  
 
This item was for discussion only. 
 
5. 
Draft FY 20/21 Unmet Transit Needs Report: 
Ryan Niblock announced there is a pre-release on the website and asked the members to take a look at 
it. The 30-day public comment period has not begun yet. It’s meant to go out for public review next 
week. Staff will be scheduling a SSTAC meeting so that can be kicked off. 
 
Ms. Goldlist stated SJCOG and local and regional transit partners began public outreach in the fall of 
2019 and received a total of 109 comments. Comments asked for additional service frequency, late 
night and weekend service, and to establish service between specific locations in and around the region. 
The SSTAC committee identified 17 unmet transit needs that were unreasonable to meet and did not 
meet the criteria. 
 
5
Ms. Nguyen stated this is a draft report for discussion. Staff is looking to get feedback on the 
recommendation so this report can come back for action in June. 
 
Mr. Andoh said the unmet needs that were unreasonable to meet were assigned to particular 
jurisdictions, but wouldn’t it be assigned to both jurisdictions impacted? Mr. Niblock agreed and said 
staff can make the edit. 
 
Mr. Andoh indicated a comment asked for increased weekend service to San Joaquin RTC and asked 
whether it was referring to the bus yard. Mr. Niblock stated they meant downtown transit center.  
 
Mr. Andoh said doesn’t Bear Creek High School have service on Route 566? Mr. Lorente said he would 
look it up.  
 
Mr. Niblock said this was a comment that was discussed with the SSTAC working group, so he assumed 
there wasn’t any service available. He asked RTD staff to get back to him regarding whether it is being 
serviced. 
 
This item was for discussion only. 
 
6. 
Other Matters of Business 
Mr. Lovell said Tracy is going to have to take the Masabi contract to the city council for approval due 
to a clause in the schedule. He asked the cities who were already on board if there was a way they 
didn’t have to get city council approval. The soonest he can get it to city council is May 19. 
 
Ms. Tyack asked if Mr. Lovell has the exact section of the schedule where it refers to that. Mr. Lovell 
said he is just quoting back what the city attorney sent. 
 
Ms. Tyack said Lodi’s city attorney also had issues with indemnification, but they realized it was 
covered in the master contract with SJCOG. Ms. Graham said she thought their issue had more to do 
with cyber liability insurance, which Masabi agreed to include. She does not see where the other 
insurance is an issue. 
 
Mr. Andoh asked if the indemnification language has to be in there. Ms. Nguyen asked what specific 
part of the schedule is he referring to. Whatever the transit operator and Masabi agrees to is what is in 
the schedule. In terms of indemnity language, Section 12.1 indicates that SJCOG and its agents 
identified in schedules A-G were explicitly spelled out in the SJCOG/Masabi contract. In later clauses 
in the indemnity unlimited liability, there is additional referral to indemnified parties within the 
agreement and those indemnified parties include the authorized agents in the schedules. 
 
Ms. Nguyen asked who is already signed off on the agreement and is actually securing signatures.  
 
Ms. Quilici stated it will go to Ripon’s council meeting on May 12th. 
 
Mr. Portillo said he wants to consult with the city attorney to look into Mr. Lovell’s inquiry regarding 
the clause in the schedule.  
 
Mr. Lovell said, Section 5 under Operator Responsibilities, Masabi wants the operator to indemnify 
them against all these different things, which triggers the requirement to go to city council.  
 
Mr. Andoh stated he asked if the language has to be there because he is currently negotiating with 
Masabi in Columbia and they took out the language. Ms. Nguyen indicated it was Masabi’s demand to 
add that language. 
 
Mr. Lovell questioned why they wouldn’t take it out of everyone’s schedule if they took it out of Lodi’s. 
Mr. Andoh said you can tell them that you’re not going to do it and they will cooperate. 
6
 
Ms. Graham stated she knows Ms. Nguyen was trying to use Lodi’s sample, after the revisions, for 
other agencies to use to avoid taking it to council but doesn’t know if Masabi was aware of that or if it 
just fell through the communication cracks. She informed the members that she can resend Lodi’s 
version of the schedule if they’d like to use it. 
 
Ms. Nguyen indicated Masabi is trying to reach an agreement with everyone so whatever they agree 
on with Lodi is not specific to Lodi. Therefore, if the jurisdictions want to use Lodi’s, they absolutely 
can. 
 
Ms. Nguyen asked where Lodi is at with the agreement. Ms. Graham indicated they just need to clean 
up the schedule by inserting Lodi’s name and then circulate it for signatures. 
 
Ms. Nguyen asked if Mr. Peterson has an update from the Rail Commission. Mr. Peterson said he will 
follow up with Sarah Rasheed and get back with a status. 
 
Ms. Nguyen said staff is looking to focus on getting these agreements executed in mid-May. The Rail 
Commission is extending their contract with Masabi so their agreement won’t be as detailed. 
 
Ms. Nguyen asked Mr. Lorente if RTD is still working through finalizing their schedule. Mr. Lorente 
stated there is still one more item on reporting and then they should be able to circulate for signatures. 
 
Ms. Nguyen stated it would be fantastic if everyone could target mid-May. Lodi’s version of the 
schedule has a lot of changes and was sent out Friday. Ms. Graham stated she just resent their version. 
 
Mr. Lovell said he sent Lodi’s version to Tracy’s city attorney to try to expedite this. 
 
Ms. Nguyen stated Mr. Andoh asked if this committee is interested in having a chair/vice chair. Second, 
he asked what the process would be to request agenda items to be added to the ITC agenda. She asked 
if Mr. Andoh wanted to add any comments. Mr. Andoh confirmed he didn’t have further comments. 
 
The members expressed support in having a chair and vice chair. 
 
Ms. Nguyen stated Mr. Niblock will add an action item to vote for chair and vice chair next meeting. 
 
Mr. Niblock recommended that all members be in attendance. 
 
Ms. Graham questioned if COG staff can be voted as chair or vice chair. Ms. Nguyen indicated COG 
staff are not voting members of the committee. 
 
Ms. Nguyen stated that Mr. Andoh had proposed a couple of agenda items: 1) the consideration of 
changes to the LTF policy, and 2) the status on intercity transit. Staff would like to agendize items 
requested by members, but it may be more appropriate to add them to a new section called, Matters of 
Business from Operators. In addition, staff would like to receive requests in advance. 
 
Ms. Graham said Lodi has an informal TAC meeting through CTSA and RTD sends out an agenda 
asking if they have any items to add. Is that something the committee can do more informally or is 
there a rule against the members adding an item to the agenda? 
 
Mr. Andoh said his request is more for discussion to see if the committee will formulate any 
recommendations regarding intercity transit service and changes to the LTF policy since funds may be 
affected by COVID-19 for some agencies. 
 
Ms. Graham asked whether Ms. Nguyen is concerned about the items proposed not being appropriate 
for discussion at ITC or whether they’re lacking backup. Ms. Nguyen stated any items solicited from 
7
operators won’t include a comprehensive staff report from SJCOG, so she would like to build the 
distinction between the two. Then the item can be included on a future agenda so that there could be 
more information on that item. Further, the jurisdiction proposing the item could lead the item and be 
listed as the lead, so committee members know where it’s coming from. 
 
Ms. Graham stated that’s fair, but she understands where Mr. Andoh is coming from. Sometimes 
members want to include an item just for discussion because it’s trending now, which doesn’t 
necessarily require a staff report until it is discussed. It’s a good way for everyone to share their ideas 
on current items. 
 
Mr. Lovell said that maybe there can be a way to propose timely items just for discussion and without 
a staff report. In addition, whoever brings up that item will lead the item. Then the committee will see 
if the discussions require further action. 
 
Ms. Nguyen stated Mr. Niblock will send out an email to all members in advance of the ITC meeting 
asking if there are items and materials (if any) to be added for discussion, which will be added under 
the name of the operator. She asked the members if that works for them and the members indicated that 
works for them. 
 
Mr. Andoh asked if there are any updates on intercity bus. Ms. Nguyen stated she is aware that Ms. 
Gayle and Ms. Salazar are working on this. About a week ago, they were developing some internal 
recommendations based on comments from the operators. They are maintaining some existing services, 
deleting and refining some of the routes, then adding some new routes. Based on the new package, the 
funding shortfall of $600,000 was drastically reduced, but they felt it was something that could still be 
manageable. Staff will reach out to them for the next ITC meeting. However, Ms. Salazar and Ms. 
Gayle stated they want to meet with operators individually, which should happen soon. 
 
Ms. Quilici asked where the jurisdictions are at with their performance objectives. Ms. Tyack stated 
Lodi submitted their performance objectives for a second review. They can send it out to everybody, 
but it would probably be good if they get their final comments. 
 
Mr. Andoh asked if everyone is aware that the performance objectives aren’t due until December now. 
 
7. 
Adjournment 
There being no further business to discuss, the ITC meeting was adjourned at 2:40 p.m. The next 
meeting will adjourn to Monday, June 1, 2020 at 1:30 p.m. 
8
AGENDA ITEM 4 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
June 2020 
ITC 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
SUBJECT: 
 
 
RECOMMENDED ACTION:  
Final FY 20/21 Unmet Transit Needs 
Report 
 
 
Approve Final FY 20/21 Unmet Transit 
Needs Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY: 
 
Each year, pursuant to state law, the Transportation Development Act (TDA), as the Regional 
Transportation Planning Agency, the San Joaquin Council of Governments (SJCOG) must identify 
any unmet transit needs that may exist in San Joaquin County.  If needs are found, SJCOG must 
determine whether those needs are reasonable to meet.  SJCOG must ensure that reasonable needs 
are met before TDA funds are allocated to local jurisdictions for non-transit purposes.   
 
The unmet transit needs assessment requires SJCOG to meet the following requirements: 
• Ensure that several factors have been considered in the planning process, including: 
1. Size and location of groups likely to be dependent on transit,  
2. Adequacy of existing services and potential alternative services  
3. Service improvements that could meet all or part of the travel demand.  
• Hold a public hearing to receive testimony on unmet needs. 
• Determine definitions for "unmet transit needs" and "reasonable to meet." 
• Adopt a finding regarding unmet transit needs and allocate funds to address those needs, if 
necessary, before street and road TDA allocations. 
 
This year’s assessment included nine public hearings, an online survey posted on SJCOG’s 
website, and paper submissions, producing a total of 107 comments on transit service from specific 
individuals. After review of all comments with the Social Services Transportation Advisory 
Committee, SJCOG found no unmet transit needs recommended be found reasonable to meet. 
The report is available on SJCOG’s website: https://www.sjcog.org/UTN. 
 
Comments on the report will be accepted through June 22, 2020.  The SJCOG Board is expected 
to take action on the final report at its regularly scheduled June meeting. 
 
RECOMMENDATION: 
 
Vote to approve the Final FY 20/21 Unmet Transit Needs Report. 
 
10
BACKGROUND: 
 
At the request of the SSTAC, SJCOG formed a subcommittee to review the adopted definitions of 
“unmet transit need” and “reasonable to meet”. The updated definitions as proposed by the 
subcommittee and adopted by the Board in February 2018, are as follows: 
 
 
 
11
An unmet transit need that meets the definition above and meets all the following criteria shall be 
considered reasonable to meet: 
 
12
 
Within the definition, an unmet transit need cannot be found unreasonable solely based upon 
economic feasibility. 
13
Operational, Educational, and Non-Specific Comments on Transit Service  
The annual Unmet Transit Needs process provides a broad opportunity for the public to provide 
input on transit services in San Joaquin County. As a result, comments are often submitted that do 
not meet the definition of unmet transit needs provided above. These comments generally fall in 
the following categories: 
 
Although these comments cannot be considered unmet transit needs and thus are not evaluated as 
to whether they are “reasonable to meet,” they still provide valuable input on transit service. 
SJCOG forwards all comments to the relevant transit operators, who consider them when 
developing service improvements or providing educational materials to the public. 
 
 
14
DISCUSSION: 
 
Public Input 
This year’s Unmet Transit Needs process included an extended public outreach process using new 
techniques to gain public input. These efforts were intended to promote multiple opportunities for 
members of the public to communicate their unmet transit needs (e.g., SJCOG website, survey, 
social media, phone,). Examples of this effort include: 
• Nine public hearings held throughout San Joaquin County, including at least one hearing 
in each jurisdiction 
• Attending community events and reaching out to local organizations 
• An online survey was posted on the SJCOG website and e-blasted to interested parties 
The various community outreach efforts produced a total of 107 comments on transit service. 
 
Analysis of Comments Received 
SJCOG convened a UTN Review Subcommittee consisting of seven members of the SSTAC 
(including RTD, other transit operators, and social service providers).  Most comments were 
deemed to fall into the Operational, Educational, or Non-Specific categories defined above, and as 
such were not considered unmet transit needs. These comments will be forwarded to the 
appropriate transit operators for consideration in service planning. 
 
Findings 
Based on the analysis described above, SJCOG recommends the following Unmet Transit Needs 
Findings for FY 20/21: 
 
Jurisdiction 
Unmet Need, determined Not Reasonable to Meet 
Lathrop 
Loop route from Generations Center to City Hall 
Lathrop/Manteca 
Route connecting Lathrop and Manteca 
Lodi 
Service to/from City Council meetings 
SJ County 
Service to Micke Grove Park 
SJ County 
Transportation to Micke Grove on weekends 
Stockton 
Increased weekend service to San Joaquin RTC 
Stockton 
Increased weekend service to Sherwood Mall 
Stockton 
Service from Feather River Drive to Pacific and Alpine 
Stockton 
Service from Feather River Drive to Pershing and Alpine 
Stockton/Lodi 
Service connecting 711 Cross St and 1400 Tenth St in Stockton 
Stockton/Lodi 
Increased service connecting Stockton and Lodi 
Stockton/Lodi 
Additional night service on Route 23, and other routes to Lodi at night. 
Stockton/SJ County 
Service from Mountain House to Stockton 
Tracy/Manteca 
Route connecting Tracy and Manteca 
Tracy/SJ County 
Mountain House to 11th Street Tracy 
Tracy/SJ County 
Service to Safeway Depo Area 
Tracy/SJ County 
Service at Morehead trailer park on Chrisman Road 
Tracy/SJ County 
Service from Mountain House to El Concilio in Tracy 
Interregional 
Service from Tracy to Blackhawk 
*Note: Unmet transit needs requesting service between cities is assigned to RTD as an intercity need. 
15
 
ATTACHMENTS 
None. 
 
 
Report prepared by Ryan Niblock, Senior Regional Planner 
16
