 
June 10, 2020                                       Planning Commission Agenda                                               Page 1 
Jane Farkas, Chair 
David Comden, Vice-Chair 
Kara Davis, Commissioner 
Nancy Butler Francis, Commissioner 
Scott McCarty, Commissioner 
Jennifer Miller, Commissioner 
Lucas Zucker, Commissioner 
Peter Gilli, Community Development Director 
Neda Zayer, Assistant Community Development Director 
Andy Heglund, Senior Assistant City Attorney 
Antoinette Mann, Recording Secretary 
 
REGULAR MEETING: 
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 10, 2020 – 6:00 P.M. 
WEBEX EVENT 
 
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CALIFORNIA GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE STAY AT HOME ORDER AND 
THE COUNTY OF VENTURA HEALTH OFFICER DECLARED LOCAL HEALTH EMERGENCY AND BE 
WELL AT HOME ORDER RESULTING FROM THE NOVEL CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19), CITY HALL IS 
CLOSED TO THE PUBLIC.  
 
To Join the Hearing Live: 
The virtual meeting will be held on WebEx Events.  You can join the hearing as it is occurring by clicking the following 
link:  
 
https://cityofventura.webex.com/cityofventura/onstage/g.php?MTID=e65e88668ac591d48b1e2b591b9fcf801 
 
When you join, you will be an attendee at the meeting where you will be able to listen and see but will not be visible 
on screen and will be muted. 
 
To Submit Public Comment Live: 
If you would like to make a comment on an item during the meeting, there will be a Q&A function on your screen.  You 
can write, "I would like to speak on Agenda Item #__" in the Q&A comment box. During the discussion of that item, 
the Planning Commission Chair will allow public comment. The City Clerk will announce those requesting to comment 
and unmute your mic allowing you to speak. You will be heard, but not visible on screen. You will have 3 minutes to 
provide your comments. When you are finished, your mic will be muted again. 
 
To Join the Hearing via Telephone: 
You can join the hearing through an audio connection by calling 1-408-418-9388 and entering the following access 
code: 293 694 287 
 
Note:  Audio connections will not be able to provide public comment as the hearing is occurring 
 
To Submit Public Comment via Telephone: 
You can submit your comments via telephone by calling (805) 654-7869 by 2:00 pm of the day of the hearing. Please 
indicate you are calling about the June 10th Planning Commission meeting and which Agenda item you are 
referencing. 
 
To Watch the Meeting: 
You can watch live streaming https://www.cityofventura.ca.gov/718/Videos, or on television channel 15.  
 
To Submit Written Public Comment: 
You can submit your written comments by 2:00 p.m. on the day of the hearing by using the Electronic Agenda Public 
Comment Form. Please indicated the Subject Line, the Agenda item number (i.e. Item No. 8). Your written comment 
will be read into the record by the Planning Commission Chair at the hearing. 
 
Public Hearing Notices and any materials related to an agenda item submitted to the Planning Commission after 
distribution 
of 
the 
agenda 
packet 
are 
available 
on 
the 
City’s 
website 
- 
https://ca-
ventura.civicplus.com/AgendaCenter/Planning-Commission-19 
 
 
June 10, 2020                            Planning Commission Agenda                                          Page 2 
ROLL CALL 
 
PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS – Public Communications is the time set-aside during the Committee 
meetings for members of the public to address the Committee on planning related business other than 
scheduled agenda items.  Persons wishing to address the Committee during the Public Communications 
period of the meeting should fill out a speaker form prior to the Committee reaching this point on the agenda. 
  
STAFF COMMUNICATION 
 
CONSENT ITEM 
 
1. 
Approval of the Planning Commission February 26, 2020 Meeting Minutes.  
 
Recommendation: Approve, as presented. 
 
FORMAL ITEMS 
 
2. 
PROJ-11006 – Starbucks Coffee Shop Design Review located at 3550 East 
Main Street. 
 
Request for Formal Design Review Use Permit, and Variance to demolish an 
existing 2,125 square foot restaurant and construct a new 1,670 square foot 
restaurant with a drive-thru and 1,357 square foot patio on a 1.0-acre site in the 
General Commercial (C-2) zone.  
 
Recommendation:   
That the Planning Commission approve the Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND), 
the Formal Design Review, the Use Permit, and Variance, as conditioned. 
OR  
That the Planning Commission not approve the Mitigated Negative Declaration 
(MND), and deny the Formal Design Review, the Use Permit, and Variance. 
 
California Environmental Quality Act 
 
Mitigated Negative Declaration; Mitigation identified in the following categories: 
Biology, Cultural Resources, Geology/Soils, and Noise. 
 
Case Planner:  Maruja Clensay, Senior Planner 
Applicant:  Starbucks Coffee Company 
 
3. 
PROJ-14521 – Zoning Ordinance Amendment in Manufacturing Planned 
Development Zone - Citywide. 
 
Request for a Zoning Ordinance Amendment to include Animal Sales and 
Services: Grooming and Pet Stores in Manufacturing Planned Development (M-P-
D) Zone – Section 24.264.030 - Subject to a use permit.  
 
 
June 10, 2020                                          Planning Commission Agenda                            Page 3 
Recommendation:  Forward recommendations to the City Council to approve the 
Zoning Ordinance Amendment. 
 
California Environmental Quality Act 
 
The project is categorically Exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA) Guidelines Section 15061 (b) (3) and 15308. 
 
Case Planner:  Jamie Peltier, Associate Planner 
Applicant:  City of Ventura 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
This agenda was posted on Thursday, June 4, 2020 at 2:00 pm on the City website, in 
the Public Meetings/Agenda Center: https://www.cityofventura.ca.gov/714/Planning-
Commission and City Hall Public Notice Board.  
 
Pursuant to the California Government Code, please take notice as follows: If you 
challenge the action described in this notice in court, you may be limited to raising issues 
you or someone else raised at the Public Hearing, or in written correspondence delivered 
to the City of San Buenaventura at, or prior to the public hearing. 
 
In compliance with American with Disabilities Act, if you need special assistance to 
participate in this meeting, call (805) 654-7869 or the California Relay Service at (866) 
735-2929.  Notification 72 hours in advance of the meeting will enable the city to make 
reasonable arrangement to ensure accessibility to the meeting. 
 
 
 
 
