 
NOTICE: Individuals who need special assistance or a disability-related accommodation in order to 
participate in this meeting should contact Reyna Piñon, Conservation Coordinator, at least 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. Reyna may be reached at (530) 661-2063 or by emailing 
reyna.pinon@cityofwoodland.org. 
 
 
SPECIAL MEETING OF THE  
SUSTAINABILITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
JUNE 10, 2020 – 6:00 P.M. 
 
Via Teleconference Call 
 
The Sustainability Advisory Committee meeting will be conducted pursuant to the 
Governor’s Executive Order N-25-20 and N-29-20. Members of the Sustainability Advisory 
Committee and city staff will attend this meeting telephonically. Any interested member of 
the public who wishes to listen in may join this meeting via teleconferencing, as set forth 
below. 
 
Members of the public who wish to listen to the Sustainability Advisory Committee 
meeting may do so with the teleconferencing call-in number and meeting ID code below: 
 
Join meeting via Zoom: 
a. From a PC, Mac, iPad, iPhone or Android device with high-speed internet. (If your 
device does not have audio, please also join by phone.)  
https://zoom.us/j/93838222306?pwd=cTZnOUxUUEZTdEY5YXZvSm85SFhLZz09 
 
Meeting ID: 938 3822 2306 
Password: 732425 
 
b. By phone:  
One tap mobile 
+16699006833,,93838222306#,,1#,732425# US (San Jose) 
+12532158782,,93838222306#,,1#,732425# US (Tacoma) 
 
Dial by your location 
         +1 669 900 6833 US (San Jose) 
         +1 253 215 8782 US (Tacoma) 
         +1 346 248 7799 US (Houston) 
         +1 929 205 6099 US (New York) 
        
+1 301 715 8592 US (Germantown) 
        
+1 312 626 6799 US (Chicago) 
 
Meeting ID: 938 3822 2306 
Password: 732425 
 
Public comments may be submitted electronically or during the meeting. Instructions on 
how to submit your public comments can be found in the Public Participation note at the 
end of this agenda. 
 
Agenda 
 
1. Call to order 
2. Roll call 
3. Public comment 
This is an opportunity for members of the public to comment on subjects related to sustainability 
that are not on the agenda. See below under Public Participation for how to provide public 
comments.  
4. Member reports (20 minutes) 
This is an opportunity for members of the Committee to report on relevant activities.  
5. Staff reports (5 minutes) 
a. Recruitment process for vacant spots 
b. Environmental Services Division updates 
6. Approve minutes for March 11, 2020 
7. Work plan development sub-committee updates (10 minutes) 
8. Waste Management update (5 minutes) 
9. Presentation of Climate Action Plan Story Map (30 minutes) 
10. Discuss long-range calendar (5 minutes) 
11. Adjourn 
 
Public Participation 
Public comments for this meeting will be done electronically via e-mail and during the meeting 
as described below.  
Public comments via e-mail: If you wish to make a comment during general public comment or 
on a specific agenda item, you may submit an email to SACmeetings@cityofwoodland.org prior 
to public comment on that item. Email comments submitted to be read into the record shall be no 
more than three (3) minutes when read aloud. Please include the agenda item in the subject line.  
Verbal public comments: If participating during the meeting, there are two (2) ways for the 
public to provide verbal comments: 
1. If you are attending by computer, click on the “reactions” icon at the bottom of your 
screen, then raise your hand by clicking the “hand clap” icon 
2. If you are attending by phone only, press *9 on your phone to raise your hand 
City staff will acknowledge that you have a public comment to make during the item and 
will call upon you to make your verbal comment.  
 
 
 
 
SUSTAINABILITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
DRAFT MEETING MINUTES – MARCH 11, 2020 
  
 
1. Call to Order 
Meeting called to order at 6:06 p.m. 
2. Roll Call 
Present: Mark Aulman, Christine Casey, Liza Grandia, Catalina Munoz, Robert Ullrey 
Absent: Sara Schremmer, Raul Tadle 
Staff Present: Rosie Ledesma, Reyna Piñon, Craig Locke 
Guest Speaker: Kayla Rodriguez 
3. Public comment 
None. 
4. Member reports 
Aulman: The Yolo County Board of Supervisors voted unanimously to direct staff to draft 
a policy statement in collaboration with a volunteer coalition group regarding a climate 
emergency declaration. 
Munoz: Catalina attended the March joint ad-hoc meeting for Woodland Joint Unified 
School District, the City of Woodland, and Woodland Community College.  
Grandia: The UC Davis Western Cooling Efficiency Center has received several grants to 
partner with local agencies on projects to improve indoor air quality. These projects have 
shown improvement of indoor air quality with implementation of electrification measures. 
5. Staff reports 
Reyna Piñon, Conservation Coordinator, stated that applications for City Boards, 
Commissions, and Committees will be accepted during the recruitment period March 13 
through May 1. There are two vacant spots on the Sustainability Advisory Committee, so 
staff will be promoting the City’s recruitment through social media and community groups 
and networks to encourage those interested to submit applications. Staff has reserved three 
booth spots at the California Honey Festival, one of which is available for the 
Sustainability Advisory Committee to utilize for public engagement on the Climate Action 
Plan and sustainability. 
Rosie Ledesma, Environmental Resource Analyst, will be presenting at the Sunrise Rotary 
Club about recycling and the new Waste Wizard and Collection Calendar tools on the 
City’s website. The City recently hired a new part-time Conservation Coordinator in the 
Environmental Services Division who is working on enforcement of mandatory 
commercial organics recycling.  
 
 
 
 
 
6. Approve minutes for February 12, 2020 
On a motion by Robert Ullrey, seconded by Catalina Munoz, and carried unanimously on a 
4-0-3 vote, committee members approved the minutes for the February 12, 2020 meeting. 
Ayes: Casey, Grandia, Munoz, and Ullrey 
Noes: None 
Abstain: Aulman 
Absent: Schremmer, Tadle 
7. Sub-committee updates 
Because Marcia Cary resigned from the Committee after its February meeting, there are 
now only seven members. This means a quorum is now four members (until the vacancies 
are filled) and, therefore, sub-committees must have a maximum of three members. 
On a motion by Robert Ullrey, seconded by Mark Aulman, and carried unanimously on a 
5-0-2 vote, committee members approved the restructuring of the existing ad-hoc sub-
committees for work plan development as follows: 
1. Sustainability Policy and Climate Action Plan (CAP) Implementation Feedback to 
City Council: 
Munoz (coordinator), Tadle, Ullrey 
2. Sustainability Program Design and Implementation Advisement and Assistance: 
Aulman (coordinator), Tadle, Ullrey 
3. Public Input and Feedback on Sustainability and CAP Implementation Issues & 
Community-Wide CAP Implementation Assistance: 
Grandia (coordinator), Aulman, Munoz 
Ayes: Aulman, Casey, Grandia, Munoz, and Ullrey 
Noes: None 
Absent: Schremmer, Tadle 
8. Presentation: Waste Management Smart Truck 
Kayla Rodriguez, Public Sector Manager for Waste Management, gave a presentation on 
Waste Management’s new Smart Truck technology, which allows Waste Management to 
capture video to document overloaded containers and contamination as well as validate 
service levels. This technology is currently operating for commercial customers, but is not 
yet operating for residential customers. Committee members provided feedback and 
expressed concerns related to operation of the technology, potential issues that may occur, 
outreach approaches, and messaging. The Committee agreed that it would be beneficial for 
Waste Management to attend a future meeting for further discussion on this topic. 
9. Finalize proclamation recognizing the 50th anniversary of Earth Day 
On a motion by Mark Aulman, seconded by Robert Ullrey, and carried unanimously on a 
5-0-2 vote, committee members approved the final draft of a proclamation recognizing the 
 
 
 
50th anniversary of Earth Day that will be taken to City Council at the April 21 Council 
meeting. 
Ayes: Aulman, Casey, Grandia, Munoz, and Ullrey 
Noes: None 
Absent: Schremmer, Tadle 
10. Discuss SB 54 & AB 1080 support letters 
SB 54 and AB 1080 were moved to the inactive file in January 2020 and September 2019, 
respectively. On a motion by Robert Ullrey, seconded by Catalina Munoz, and carried 
unanimously on a 5-0-2 vote, committee members expressed their support for the support 
letters for the bills in their current form, and advised staff to revisit the letters of support if 
the bills are taken up by the legislature again.  
Ayes: Aulman, Casey, Grandia, Munoz, and Ullrey 
Noes: None 
Absent: Schremmer, Tadle 
11. Discuss sustainability fair/event and appoint members to sub-committee 
The Committee discussed ideas for different event formats including a workshop series or 
one-day event. The Committee decided to wait until a future meeting to appoint a sub-
committee to organize a sustainability fair/event. 
12. Discuss 2020 Clean Air Funds grant application 
The City is exploring ideas for grant proposals for the current cycle of the Yolo-Solano Air 
Quality Management District’s Clean Air Funds grant. Project ideas include replacement of 
a diesel-powered lawn mower with an all-electric mower with an option to add a solar 
panel canopy or partnering with the Woodland Joint Unified School District and/or The 
Bike Campaign on a project to improve bike infrastructure, resources, and/or outreach at 
schools. Committee members like both ideas and advised staff to look into survey results 
from a recent Safe Routes to Schools survey, opportunities to use grant funds to buy bike 
helmets for students, the cost for scanning check-in systems at schools for students that ride 
their bikes, and other grant opportunities to provide rebates or other resources for replacing 
fuel-powered landscaping equipment with electric models.  
13. Discuss long-range calendar 
The Committee would like to see an item added to the long-range calendar for further 
discussion of Waste Management’s Smart Truck technology. Upcoming agenda items 
include a presentation on the City’s Urban Forest Master Plan and tree ordinance and 
discussions regarding the Committee outreach plan being prepared by the City’s 
CivicSpark Fellow.  
14. Adjourn 
Meeting adjourned at 7:36 p.m. 
 
