Sustainability Committee 
ONLINE MEETING AGENDA 
June 9th, 2020 
7pm 
Meeting Link:  https:// us02web.zoom.us/j/85801812702 
Meeting ID: 858 0181 2702  
Call in: +1-301-715-8592 
 
Committee Members:  
Phoebe Beierle (Permanent Building Committee liaison), Leslie Glynn (Planning Board representative), 
Sandy Kendall, Chris Jylkka, David Ayer, Rachel Stewart (School Committee liaison), Katharina Wilkins 
(chair, Board of Selectmen liaison) 
“Pursuant to Governor Baker’s March 12, 2020 Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §18, and the Governor’s March 15, 2020 Order concerning imposition on 
strict limitations on the number of people that may gather in one place, meetings in the Town of Weston 
will be conducted via remote participation to the greatest extent possible. We will strive to provide access 
to such meetings via a link to call in, or other similar option. In the event we are unable to accommodate 
the same, despite best efforts, we will post recorded sessions of the meeting as soon as possible following 
the same. No in-person attendance of members of the public will be permitted, but every effort will be 
made to ensure that the public can adequately access the proceedings.”  
1. Resident Comments 
2. Prior Minutes (May 6) 
3. Weston Power Choice – Weston’s Community Choice Aggregation program update (AKW) 
4. Climate Action and Resilience Plan – update (CARP) (PB) 
5. *Possibility for MAPC grant submission in July - discussion (PB, AKW) 
6. *MAPC Weston Energy Analysis Grant – update (AKW) 
7. Other committee business: Confirm upcoming meeting dates, possibly other topics 
 
Remote Online Attendance and/or Call-in Participation Instructions: 
 
To use Zoom with video on a smart phone or tablet you must download the Zoom app first. After 
you’ve downloaded the app, enter the Zoom Meeting ID.  
 
To use Zoom on a computer, you have to download an installer the first time you join a meeting, 
which you’ll automatically be asked to do. After that, you’ll join meetings automatically when 
you click on the meeting link.  
 
Use the call-in number to join the meeting in audio-only mode. The call-in number is access if 
your computer doesn’t have a microphone/speaker.  
 
The public is asked not to speak unless the Chair asks for public questions/comments. Please keep 
your audio on mute in order to reduce background noise during the meeting. Public participants 
may ask a question or make a comment when the Chair asks for public participation. To be 
recognized, click on the “Participants” button on the lower bar and activate the ‘Raise Hand’ 
icon.  
*Edits made on June 8, 2020 
