DATE: June 10, 2020  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TIME: 6:00 pm 
 LOCATION:  City of Ithaca Public 
Meetings YouTube Channel  
PEDC Meeting 
Planning and Economic Development Committee 
Ithaca Common Council 
City Hall Remains Closed to the Public 
This meeting will be conducted remotely via the online platform Zoom, pursuant to the Governor’s Executive 
Order 202.1. A live stream is available at https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC7RtJN1P_RFaFW2IVCnTrDg 
 
*General Public Comments 
Send written comments here: http://www.cityofithaca.org/FormCenter/Planning-Economic-
Development-Committee-18/Planning-Economic-Development-Committee--98 by 4:00 p.m. the day 
BEFORE the meeting.  All comments received will be forwarded to the Common Council for their 
consideration.  Written comments received in advance of the meeting give the Committee members time 
to fully consider them.  If you want your comment read aloud, please state so in your email and limit the 
comment to three minutes. A minimum of 15 minutes will be allotted at the beginning to read comments, 
if needed.   The Chair will make an effort to accommodate as many read comments as time permits.    
 
**Scheduled Public Hearings 
There are two options to participate in a public hearing:  
1. Submit comments by email no later than 4 p.m. on the day BEFORE the meeting. (Contact 
below), and they will be read into the record. Each comment is limited to three minutes.  Indicate 
in your email that the comment is for a public hearing. 
2. To speak at the meeting, sign up and receive instructions through the contact(s) listed below. 
 
All comments and questions can be emailed to Deborah Grunder at dgrunder@cityofithaca.org or call 
(607) 274-6551.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Agenda Items 
Item 
Voting 
Item 
Presenter 
Time 
Start 
1) Call to Order/Agenda Review 
     
No 
Seph Murtagh, Chair 
 
6:00 
2) Public Comment * 
 No 
 
6:05 
3) Special Order of Business 
a) Public Hearing:  COVID‐19 Grant Funds ** 
 
 
 
6:20 
4) Announcements, Updates, Reports 
 
 
6:30 
 
5) Action Items (Voting to Send on to Council) 
a) COVID‐19 Grant Funds 
b) Route 13 Break‐in‐Access 
c) PACE – Property Assesses Clean Energy 
 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Nels Bohn, Director, IURA 
Lisa Nicholas, Planning 
Tom Knipe, Planning 
 
6:35 
6:50 
7:20 
6) Review and Approval of Minutes 
a) February 2020 
 
Yes 
 
 
7:50 
 
7) Adjournment 
Yes 
 
8:00 
 
If you have a disability and require accommodations in order to fully participate, please contact the 
City Clerk at 274‐6570 by 12:00 noon on Tuesday, June 9, 2020 
2020 HUD Entitlement Program CDBG-CV (City of Ithaca, NY) ― Funding Proposals Received
Last Updated: 5/26/20
2020 CDBG-CV
CDBG (R/U)
TOTAL
$131,299.20
$29,753.00
$161,052.20
1
Laundry & Internet Needs During COVID-19
Opportunities, Alternatives, & 
Resources (OAR) of 
Tompkins County
 $                   11,000  $               2,300.00  $            13,300.00 
-
$                      
(1) Funding towards laundry and detergent for "Soap & Suds Laundry Program for the Homeless and Housing Insecure" during COVID-19 pandemic. (2) 
Funding towards internet for 40 students in "College Initiative Upstate Student" remote-learning program during during COVID-19 pandemic.
2
Ithaca CARES About Re-Opening Child 
Care
Child Development Council of 
Central NY, Inc.
 $                   10,000  $                  37,200  $            47,200.00 
-
$                      
Funding towards supplies related to operational changes to ensure health and safety of children for childcare programs in the City of Ithaca that are re-
opening after 5/15/20.
3
Aid for Immigrants During COVID-19
Catholic Charities of 
Tompkins/Tioga Counties
 $                   10,879  $                    6,377  $            17,256.00 
-
$                      
Funding towards salary/benefits to extend current Immigrant Services Program (ISP) program assistant position serving immigrant and refugee 
families/individuals of all ages, including the disabled, who need help accessing services to endure adverse economic impacts of COVID-19.
4
Safe Re-Opening from COVID-19 
State Theatre of Ithaca, Inc.
 $                   15,990  $                            -  $            15,990.00 
-
$                      
Funding for real property improvements (e.g., high-speed internet; sanitizing stations; plastic barriers) to safely open theatre to the public.
5
Virtual Career Coach
Women's Opportunity Center
 $                   23,470  $                            -  $            23,470.00 
-
$                      
Funding for Employment Retention Specialist salary, program materials for virtual training classes, professional development, and advertising to 
reduce/eliminate barriers to employment and place women in living wage jobs.
6
Tuition Assistance Program
Downtown Ithaca Children's 
Center (DICC)
 $                   25,600  $                  14,400  $            40,000.00 
-
$                      
Funding for staff wages/salaries to ensure DICC's ability to re-open.
7
Housing Linkages Project
Human Services Coalition of 
Tompkins County
 $                   65,000  $                  91,000  $          156,000.00 
-
$                      
Funding for salaries/benefits and delivery costs to connect COVID-affected landlords with COVID-affected tenants with income/housing subsidies, thereby 
assisting  50 households (20 of which have experienced homelessness) to secure a 1-year lease.
8
COVID-19 Emergency Assistance Program
The Salvation Army of Ithaca
 $                 100,000  $                102,000  $          202,000.00 
-
$                      
Funding for financial assistance (e.g., rent/mortgage assistance; medical prescriptions/outstanding medical bills; transportation expenses; energy/utility 
payments) to households in need. 
9
Operational & Planning Support for 
Kitchen Theatre Company
Kitchen Theatre Company, 
Inc.
 $                   75,000  $                  74,500  $          149,500.00 
-
$                      
Funding to retain/rehire theatre staff to continue theatre's operations until it is able to re-open.
10 Deep Cleaning Services to Protect SJCS 
Ithaca Shelter
St. John's Community 
Services Ithaca Shelter 
 $                   20,000  $                            -  $            20,000.00 
-
$                      
Funding for hiring Challenge Workforce Solutions to provide twice-weekly professional deep cleaning/sanitization of the Friendship Center, Pantry, and 
Shelter.
11 COVID-19 Testing for Vulnerable 
Populations
The REACH Project, Inc.
 $                   20,000  $                            -  $            20,000.00 
-
$                      
Funding for Registered Nurse and Community Health Worker, over 6 months, to provide regular, rapid, and timely COVID-19 testing for LMI people, 
people experiencing homelessness, and their front-line service providers.
12 Expanding Access to RIBs
The Center for Community 
Transportation  
 $                   16,895  $                  13,785  $            30,680.00 
-
$                      
Funding for staff salaries (including new part-time mechanic position and additional time for part-time RIBs director) to increase production of affordable 
refurbished bikes and provision of bike-repair services; and funding to further subsidize free/reduced-cost bikes or accessories for means-tested 
individuals.
13 Security Deposits for Safer Housing
Catholic Charities of 
Tompkins/Tioga Counties
 $                   25,000  $                    2,250  $            27,250.00 
-
$                      
Funding towards security deposits for individuals/families, people currently homeless, and others who are losing current housing due to adverse economic 
impacts from COVID-19.
14
Mediation as Emergency Response: 
Students & Attorneys Provide Housing Aid 
to Community
Community Dispute 
Resolution Center
 $                   35,000  $                  45,000  $            80,000.00 
-
$                      
Funding for part-time coordinator, administrative costs, equipment, volunteer training, and outreach to provide legal advice and mediation of COVID-19-
related housing disputes, for the unemployed, individuals with physical/mental disabilities, homeless/housing-insecure, people re-entering the community 
post-incarceration, immigrants, LGBQT inviduals, and ESL populations.
15 COVID-19 Cleaning Services for Area Non-
Profits
Challenge Workforce 
Solutions
 $                   96,651  $                            -  $            96,651.00 
-
$                      
Funding for salary and administrative costs for cleaners to provide free cleaning services to area non-profits struggling to re-open following COVID-19 
pandemic, and faced with new safety guidelines/precautions that must be in place before safely re-opening.  
16 Fair Housing Enforcement Project
Legal Assistance of Western 
New York, Inc.
 $                   60,000  $                  20,236  $            80,236.00 
-
$                      
Funding for staff salaries, materials, and overhead expenses to expand legal assistance to individuals negatively impacted by COVID-19.
17 New Safety Measures for Ithaca ReUse 
Center Opening
Finger Lakes ReUse, Inc. 
 $                   10,222  $                  15,391  $            25,613.00 
-
$                      
Funding towards staff salaries to meet increased COVID-19-related need for labor to operate safely through 2020.
 $      620,707.00  $    424,439.00  $ 1,045,146.00 
 $                     -    $               -    $                 -   
CDBG (R/U) = Recaptured/Unallocated (from prior years)
 
TOTALS:
#
Brief Project Summary
ANTICIPATED AVAILABLE FUNDING
Funding 
Request
Sponsor
Project
Total Project 
Cost
Matching 
Funds
(Sec. & Unsec.)
2020 HUD Entitlement Program CDBG-CV (City of Ithaca, NY)
IURA-Recommended Project Funding for 
2nd Allocation of CDBG-CV Funds 
(Results from IURA Review of 17 Funding Applications Received)
 6/4/2020
1
Laundry & Internet Needs During 
COVID-19
Opportunities, Alternatives 
and Resources (OAR) of 
Tompkins County
11,000
$               
(1) Funding towards laundry and detergent for "Soap & Suds Laundry Program for the Homeless 
and Housing Insecure" during COVID-19 pandemic. (2) Funding towards internet for 40 students in 
"College Initiative Upstate Student" remote-learning program during during COVID-19 pandemic.
2
Ithaca CARES about Re-Opening 
Child Care
Child Development Council 
of Central NY, Inc.
10,000
$               
Funding for childcare programs in the City of Ithaca that are re-opening after 5/15/20 towards 
supplies related to operational changes to ensure health and safety of children in their care.
3
Aid for Immigrants During COVID-19 Catholic Charities of 
Tompkins/Tioga Counties
10,879
$               
Funding towards salary/benefits to extend current Immigrant Services Program (ISP) program 
assistant position serving immigrant and refugee families/individuals of all ages, including the 
disabled, who need help accessing services to in response to adverse economic impacts of COVID-
19.
6
DICC Child Care Center Re-Opening 
Assistance
Downtown Ithaca Children's 
Center (DICC)
25,600
$               
Funding for staff wages/salaries to ensure ability to re-open.
8
COVID-19 Emergency Assistance 
Program
The Salvation Army of Ithaca
20,000
$               
Funding for financial assistance (e.g., rent/mortgage assistance; medical prescriptions/outstanding 
medical bills; transportation expenses; energy/utility payments) to households in need. 
11 COVID-19 Testing for Vulnerable 
Populations
The REACH Project, Inc.
20,000
$               
Funding for Registered Nurse and Community Health Worker, over 6 months, to provide regular, 
rapid, and timely COVID-19 testing for LMI people, people experiencing homelessness, and their 
front-line service providers.
13 Security Deposits for Safer Housing Catholic Charities of 
Tompkins/Tioga Counties
25,000
$               
Funding towards security deposits for individuals/families, people currently homeless, and others 
who are losing current housing due to adverse economic impacts from COVID-19. Priority to 
households accessing Housing Choice Vouchers.
 $        122,479 
CDBG-CV:
$131,299
Unallocated 2018 CDBG:
$29,753
Total:
$161,052
$38,573
Remaining funds available to address emerging COVID-19 needs
TOTALS:
Maximum Funding Available
#
Brief Project Summary
Sponsor
Project
Recommended 
CDBG-CV 
Funding
 
 
Proposed Resolution 
Planning & Economic Development Committee 
June 10, 2020 
 
2020 CDBG‐CV: SECOND ALLOCATION 
 
 
WHEREAS, the April 6, 2020, City of Ithaca (City) has received an initial supplemental funding 
allocation of Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds from The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, & 
Economic Security (CARES Act), which funding is hereafter referred to as CDBG‐CV, and  
 
WHEREAS, the CDBG‐CV allocation to the City provides $321,299 to invest in CDBG‐eligible activities 
to support community development efforts in response to the COVID‐29 pandemic, and   
 
WHEREAS, the City contracts with the Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency (IURA) to administer, implement 
and monitor the City’s HUD Entitlement program in compliance with all applicable regulations, and 
 
WHEREAS, the IURA has identified the following priority community needs: 
1. Renter households whose ability to pay rent has been reduced by COVID‐19 impacts 
2. COVID‐related relief, prevention, or recovery of persons experiencing homelessness 
3. Small businesses adversely impacted by public health mandates and guidelines 
4. Anchor non‐profits entities with at least 51% earned income adversely impacted by public 
health mandates and guidelines, and 
 
WHEREAS, the first allocation of CDBG‐CV funds was directed to assist renter households by providing 
$190,000 for the emergency rental assistance program, leaving $131,299 remaining to be allocated, 
and 
 
WHEREAS, the IURA issued a public call for funding proposals for CDBG‐CV funds with a May 26, 2020 
deadline, and 
 
WHEREAS, at their May 28, 2020 and June 4, 2020 meetings, the IURA reviewed 17 proposals 
requesting a total of $620,107 and recommended funding seven proposals at a total of $122,479; and  
 
WHEREAS, a public hearing on this matter was held on June 10, 2020; now, therefore, be it 
 
RESOLVED, that the City of Ithaca Common Council hereby approves allocation of $122,479 of CDBG‐
CV funds to the projects identified in the attached table titled “IURA‐Recommended Project Funding 
for 2nd Allocation of CDBG‐CV Funds”, dated June 4, 2020. 
 
 
1 | P a g e  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To:       Planning and Economic Development Committee 
From:   Lisa Nicholas, Deputy Director of Planning  
Date:    June 4, 2020 
RE:        Break‐in‐Access (BIA) at Fifth Street and Rt 13. – Resolution of Support  
 
Please find attached a draft resolution authorizing staff to pursue a BIA for your consideration.   The resolution has 
been updated from the previous version provided to you in April to reflect ongoing developments in the project.   
Below  is  a  timeline  showing  background  and  updates  for  your  reference.      I  have  provided  links  to  new  and 
previously  submitted  materials.    Please  do  not  hesitate  to  reach  out  if  you  have  questions  or  need  additional 
information.  
 
March 2020 Common Council March 11 Common Council Agenda (see page 9)  
 Planning  and  Engineer  staff  presented  information  about  the  BIA  process,  community  wide  benefits  and 
transportation impacts 
 After a lengthy discussion, staff were asked to conduct outreach to Northside neighbors, affected businesses 
and agencies about the proposal.    
 Staff subsequently reached out to these groups via email.  We provided information, asked for comments 
and attended a Northside United Meeting 
April 2020 PEDC April 8, PEDC Agenda (see pages 15‐23)   
 Staff provided the Committee with the outreach materials, comments received, a recommendation from 
Engineering, a final draft of the Transportation Section of the Environmental Assessment and a proposed 
resolution directing staff to pursue a BIA with the DOT.  It was not formally decided if the BIA should be a 
three or a four‐way intersection, but the Committee seemed to be leaning towards the four‐way option.   
 After  lengthy  discussion  the  Committee  agreed  to  table  a  vote  until  May  so  that  Northside  residents, 
agencies  and  businesses,  who  had  opposed  a  four  way  intersection,  could  be  informed  about  PEDC’s 
imminent decision.  
 Staff subsequently reported the outcome of the meeting to the above referenced groups.  Seph stated he 
would also reach out to them.  
May 2020  
 Staff did not bring the resolution back to PEDC in May due to comments received from the NYSDOT, Region 
3, indicating that they would not recommend the BIA unless the project was reduced in scale to lessen the 
vehicular impact during peak travel hours.   
 Ultimately the Planning Board respectfully but strenuously disagreed with NYSDOT and issued a Negative 
Declaration of Environmental Significance (see Page 8 of the FEAF Part 3) for Carpenter Circle Project on 
May 26, 2020  stating the following: 
CITY OF ITHACA 
108 E. Green St. — Third Floor   Ithaca, NY    14850-5690 
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT 
JoAnn Cornish, Director 
Planning & Development – 607-274-6550                         Community Development/IURA – 607-274-6565 
E-Mail:  dgrunder@cityofithaca.org 
 
 
 
2 | P a g e  
 
…..  In the correspondence, the DOT, an involved agency in the project, concludes that the above 
outlined  mitigations  do  not  mitigate  “the  substantial  vehicular  delays  and  queuing  issues”  and 
recommend  that  the  project  sponsors  “reduce  the  density  of  both  developments  or  phase  their 
implementation until mitigation can be achieved along the corridor”.  Although the Lead Agency 
does not concur, it acknowledges these comments and understands that the DOT has jurisdiction 
over  permitting  any  work  in  the  Route  13  ROW.      The  Lead  Agency  expects  the  applicant  to 
continue to work with DOT to allow permitting of the proposed mitigations.   The Lead Agency 
understands that if the mitigation listed above are changed or cannot be implemented additional 
environmental review will likely be required.     
 
After reviewing all the pertinent information, the Lead Agency has determined that the applicant 
has  mitigated  the  impacts  to  transportation  to  the  maximum  extent  practicable.    The  key  to 
maximum trip reduction (well beyond the 15% percent currently projected) is a well developed and 
implemented TDM Plan.  Such a plan will be developed and approved in coordination with the City 
as a condition of Site Plan Approval.   Although there is added vehicular burden on the capacity of 
Rte 13, the applicant has proposed project features and provided mitigations that will increase the 
ability  to  travel  safely  to  and  from  the  site  by  bus,  bike  or  walking.        The  applicant  has  also 
provided mitigations to increase vehicular capacity that do not conflict with pedestrian and bike 
comfort and safety.  Finally, the creation of housing units within the City in proximity to retail, 
services,  employment  and  recreation  presents  a  lasting  potential  to  shift  transportation  modes 
away from single occupancy vehicles.  
 
 
The Planning Board also granted Preliminary Site Plan Approval with the following traffic‐related 
conditions to be satisfied before Final Approval for any phase of the project: 
 
Development  by  the  applicant  and  acceptance  by  the  City  of  a  plan  and  schedule  for  the 
financing  and  implementation  of  transportation  and  emergency  access  improvements 
detailed in the FEAF Part 3, or other alternative improvements deemed equally appropriate 
and effective by the City 
 
Development  by  the  applicant  and  acceptance  by  the  City  of  a  plan  and  schedule  for  the 
financing, implementation and monitoring of a TDM program 
 
 Transportation engineers for the project team have been working with DOT to provide additional analysis 
showing reduced traffic impacts without making the project smaller.  They recently submitted a sensitivity 
analysis which is under review by DOT.  
 
DRAFT Planning Committee Resolution to authorize staff to pursue a Break ‐In‐Access on Rte 13 at 
Fifth St   June 10, 2020  
WHEREAS:  Break‐in‐Access  (BIA)  refers  to  a  modification  to  a  State  road  that  provides  vehicular, 
pedestrian and/or bike access where there is currently no access, and   
WHEREAS:  A  local  government  must  apply  to  NYSDOT  for  a  BIA.     Such  application  must  analyze 
transportation impacts and demonstrate that the proposed BIA has community‐wide benefits, and    
WHEREAS:  Upon NYSDOT approval of a BIA, the local government and affected property owners must 
enter into agreements that define terms for, among other things, any  transfer or purchase of real estate 
and construction of the BIA, and     
WHEREAS:  The  City  has  long  envisioned  the  transformation  of  Rte  13  into  and  urban  boulevard  – 
including  sidewalks,  landscaping  and  an  intersection  at  Rte  13  and  Fifth  St  as  described  in  the  2015 
Comprehensive Plan, the 2019 Waterfront Plan and a Federal Build Grant submitted by the City in 2018 
and 2020 to fund the design and study needed to implement this idea, and     
WHEREAS: The  Project  Sponsor  of  the  Carpenter  Circle  Redevelopment  Project  has  proposed  a  new 
intersection  at  NYS  Route  13  and  Fifth  Street,  to  provide  enhanced  vehicular  access  and  required 
emergency access to the project, and    
WHEREAS: Community‐wide benefits of the proposed BIA include:   
1. Implementing the concept of Route 13 as an Urban Boulevard by re‐establishing  a street grid 
connecting the growing west side and urbanized east side of Rte 13 by, among other things, 
slowing traffic, providing pedestrian and bike amenities and improved crossings, adding an 
intersection at fifth street,  installing landscaping and sidewalks and encouraging new 
developments to face the street 
2.  Developing  a project that will provide up to 150 jobs, a medical facility, retail and 210 housing 
units on the same site in close proximity to two grocery stores, the Famers Market, services, the 
Cayuga Waterfront Trail and other recreational amenities and will preserve the 2.5 acre 
community gardens  
3. Building 45 permanently affordable housing units  
4. Constructing a restricted (transit and emergency vehicle only) road connecting Third Street to 
Cascadilla St  
5. Realizing the development of a long‐vacant parcel in a highly visible and accessible location that 
will provide an estimated yearly $2 million in total local taxes, including  an estimated $714,000 
in new City taxes ( not considering 7‐10 year tax abatements) 
6.  Providing a full service medical facility, with services for Medicare eligible clients, within the City 
limits, accessible by transit walking and biking, and   
WHEREAS: Transportation Impact Analyses provided by the Project Sponsor and reviewed by City and 
NYSDOT staff indicate that the project and the intersection will have a negative impact on vehicular 
traffic within the Rte 13 Corridor, meaning  that it will take more time for vehicles to travel through the 
corridor at the peak morning and evening hours, and   
WHEREAS: The Project Sponsor has proposed physical/infrastructure and programmatic mitigations for 
impacts to vehicular traffic.  These include reduced and shared parking, implementation of a 
Transportation Demand Management Plan (TDMP), and improved pedestrian and bike access across Rte 
13, and     
WHEREAS: The Project Sponsor, in coordination with Engineering and Planning Staff, has developed two 
schematic designs for the intersection:   1) A signalized 3‐way intersection with vehicular access on the 
west side only and pedestrian and bike crossings of Rte 13 with a protected median refuge and   2) A 
signalized 4‐way intersection with vehicular access  on both the east (Fifth street ) and west sides of  Rte 
13 and pedestrian and bike crossings of Rte 13 with a protected  median refuge and    
WHEREAS: the Planning Board, acting as Lead Agency in Environmental Review, did on May 26, 2020 
issue a negative Declaration of environmental Significance for the Carpenter Circle Redevelopment 
Projects, stating that through the mitigations mentioned above, and more clearly described in the Full 
Environmental Assessment Form (FEAF) Part 3, the applicant had mitigated the impacts to 
transportation to the maximum extent practicable, and  
WHEREAS: the Planning Board, did, on May 26, 2020 Grant Preliminary Site plan approval to the Project 
conditioned upon, among other things, acceptance of a more detailed TDMP and acceptance by the City 
of a plan and schedule for the financing and implementation of transportation and emergency access 
improvements  detailed  in  the  FEAF  Part  3,  or  other  alternative  improvements  deemed  equally 
appropriate and effective by the City, and   
WHEREAS: The applicant as well as Engineering and Planning staff continue to coordinate with NYSDOT 
Region 3  to reach a mutually acceptable balance between vehicular impacts and community benefits 
including those to multimodal transportation, and    
WHEREAS: Staff has conducted outreach by email to Northside residents and business and Common 
Council has considered all comments received, and    
WHEREAS: Common Council has received and considered recommendations from Planning and 
Engineering staff and has reviewed the 5/26/20 Negative Declaration of Environmental Significance for 
the Carpenter Circle Project, and    
WHEREAS: Common Council understands that the BIA will require conceptual approval from NYSDOT 
Region 3, Final Approval from the NYSDOT Commissioner, and future legal agreements between the 
City, NYSDOT and the Project Sponsor, now therefore be it     
RESOLVED:  That Common Council does herby direct staff to take any and all actions to work with 
NYSDOT and the Project Sponsor to pursue a BIA at Rte 13 and Fifth St for a (THREE‐ WAY or a FOUR‐
WAY) intersection and associated improvement.  
 
 
To: 
City of Ithaca Common Council, Planning & Economic Development Committee 
From: Tom Knipe, Deputy Director for Economic Development 
Date:  June 4, 2020 
Re: 
Open C-PACE Financing Local Law and Municipal Agreement 
The purpose of this memo is to provide background information on the proposed adoption of a 
new local law known as the “Energize NY Open C-PACE Financing Program” and a related 
resolution authorizing the City to enter into agreement with the entity who would administer this 
program on behalf of the City. 
 
The City has had a Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) financing law and agreement on the 
books since 2015, with modifications made in 2018. The purpose of PACE financing is to assist 
qualified property owners who undertake energy efficiency measures and install renewable 
energy systems. To date, no property owners in the City have availed themselves of the program. 
However in mid-2019 New York State and the Energy Investment Corporation (EIC), the local 
development corporation charged by the State with overseeing and administering the program, 
changed it to make it more attractive to both municipalities and property owners.  The name of 
the new program is Open C-Pace. 
 
EIC currently has a pending project waiting for Open C-PACE to be enabled in the City. The 
new program has also been recently used in neighboring cities. For example, here is press from 
the first PACE project in Syracuse: www.urbancny.com/energy-saving-upgrades-to-historic-
syracuse-hotel-the-largest-pace-financing-investment-in-state-history/. The City has also adopted 
a Green New Deal with bold carbon reduction goals. 
 
In order to enact C-PACE, the City must adopt a new local law and enter into a new agreement 
with EIC, spelling out the new terms of the program. The new law would repeal and replace the 
existing local PACE law. 
 
A separate memo from EIC further outlining advantages of Open C-PACE is attached, and Sarah 
Smiley, Director of Member Services for EIC, will attend the PEDC meeting on June 10th to 
present and answer questions. I am also available to answer questions about this resolution and 
local law at tknipe@cityofithaca.org.  
 
Attached:  
 C-PACE Local Law 
 Resolution – “Authorization for Municipal Agreement with the Energy Improvement 
Corporation to Implement the Energize NY Open C-PACE Financing Program” 
 EIC Memo 
 C-PACE Municipal Agreement 
CITY OF ITHACA 
108 E. Green St. — Third Floor   Ithaca, NY    14850-5690 
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT 
JoAnn Cornish, Director 
Planning & Development – 607-274-6550                         Community Development/IURA – 607-274-6565 
E-Mail:  dgrunder@cityofithaca.org 
 
 
 
Authorization for Municipal Agreement with the Energy Improvement Corporation 
to Implement the Energize NY Open C-PACE Financing Program 
 
 
WHEREAS, by Local Law No. 2015-2, the City of Ithaca created the Energize NY 
Benefit Financing Program (also known as the Sustainable Energy Loan Program) 
utilizing the Energy Improvement Corporation (EIC), a local development corporation 
acting on behalf of the City, to provide Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) 
financing to assist qualified property owners who undertake energy efficiency measures 
and install renewable energy systems; and  
 
WHEREAS, in 2015 the City entered into a Municipal Agreement with EIC to administer 
the Energize NY Benefit Financing Program; and 
 
WHEREAS, in 2018 the City amended the NY Benefit Financing Program by local law 
No. 2018-1 and modified its agreement with EIC to enable changes made by New York 
State at the local level, and  
 
WHEREAS, in 2019 EIC launched a new PACE financing program called Open C-
PACE which replaces EIC’s former PACE program and enables municipalities to offer 
the public benefit of PACE without incurring any administrative or financial obligations, 
and  
 
WHEREAS, in June 2019, Common Council adopted the Ithaca Green New Deal which 
included a goal to achieve a carbon neutral city by 2030 and with which Open C-PACE 
is in alignment, and  
 
WHEREAS, by local law No. 2020-XX, known as the “Energize NY Open C-PACE 
Financing Program”, the City of Ithaca repeals and replaces the City’s former PACE law 
embodied in the provisions of Article VII, Chapter 4 of the City Code, and  
 
WHEREAS, a new Municipal Agreement is required to establish the roles, 
responsibilities, and obligations of EIC and the City in the administration of the new 
Energize NY Open C-PACE Financing Program; now therefore be it: 
 
RESOLVED, That the Mayor, upon review of the City Attorney, is hereby authorized to 
enter into a Municipal Agreement with the Energy Improvement Corporation, a local 
development corporation, to implement the Energize NY Open C-PACE Financing 
Program; this program will allow EIC, acting on behalf of the City, to make funds 
available to qualified property owners to fund renewable energy systems and energy 
efficiency measures on commercial properties; and be it further 
 
RESOLVED, that said agreement shall be at no cost to the City; and be it further  
 
RESOLVED, that said agreement shall be in substantially the same form as the 
Agreement attached hereto as "Appendix A" subject to the approval of the City Attorney. 
 
 
 
 
Energize NY • 2875 Route 35, Katonah, New York, 10536 • 914-302-7300 • eicpace.org 
May 28, 2020 
 
To: City of Ithaca Common Council 
From: Energy Improvement Corporation (EIC) 
 
RE: EIC NY Open C-PACE 
 
In April of 2019, EIC launched a new Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) finance program, called 
Open C-PACE.  This program channels private capital to commercial and non-profit building owners to 
make energy upgrades to their buildings, stimulating economic development and providing an 
important environmental benefit through reduced emissions.  PACE financing is authorized by Article 
5-L of NYS General Municipal Law, which enables municipalities to secure repayment of the financing 
through a benefit assessment lien on the improved property.  
 
Open C-PACE replaces EIC’s former “make whole” PACE program, and enables the municipality to offer 
the public benefit of PACE withing incurring any administrative or financial obligations.  To enable 
Open C-PACE, the City must adopt a new Local Law and authorize a new Municipal Agreement with EIC 
(template documents provided by EIC).  These documents must remain uniform as Open C-PACE is a 
statewide program.   
 
Advantages of Open C-PACE: 
 
• 
EIC will bill the property owner directly and administer collection of the payment; the 
municipality will not add a charge to the property’s tax bill. 
EIC converted to direct billing to remove administrative obligations from municipalities, and offer 
a more direct collection approach to capital providers. Separating the annual PACE installment 
amount from the municipal tax bill also enabled EIC to subordinate the PACE lien to municipal 
taxes.   
• 
The municipality is not responsible for guaranteeing the loan payment. 
This change addressed concerns raised by municipalities and eliminated the need to charge higher 
fees to fund municipal loss reserves for new projects.   
• 
Funds are provided through EIC-approved capital providers, listed on EIC’s website.  An 
open market program makes more capital available to improve the building stock and fosters 
competition for projects, which lowers rates for property owners. 
• 
Financing is secured through a Benefit Assessment Lien which EIC will record on the land 
records of the benefited property.  The Benefit Assessment Lien is subordinate to municipal 
taxes and senior to all other liens (consent from existing mortgage holders is required). 
In the event of non-payment, the capital provider may enforce delinquent Annual Installment Liens 
by following the same timeline of foreclosure governing delinquent municipal taxes, and only after 
paying any taxes owed by the property owner to the municipality.  
Commercial property owners and non-profits will benefit from lower fees, competitive interest rates, 
financing terms as long as 30 years and transferability if the property is sold.  The community will 
benefit from more impactful clean energy projects.  
 
EIC is a non-profit, local development corporation administering PACE finance on behalf of its member 
municipalities.  
APPENDIX A – For Resolution “Authorization for Municipal Agreement with the Energy 
Improvement Corporation to Implement the Energize NY Open C-PACE Financing Program” 
V30 
MUNICIPAL AGREEMENT 
 
 
BETWEEN 
 
 
ENERGY IMPROVEMENT CORPORATION 
 
 
AND 
 
 
[PARTICIPATING MUNICIPALITY] 
 
 
RELATING TO 
 
 
ENERGIZE NY OPEN C-PACE FINANCING PROGRAM 
 
 
 
 
DATED AS OF ____________________, 2020 
V30 
 
i 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1. 
Definitions 
.......................................................................................................................... 1 
2. 
Representation and Warranties of the Parties 
............................................................... 3 
(a) 
EIC .......................................................................................................................... 3 
(b) 
Participating Municipality ...................................................................................... 4 
3. 
Obligations of EIC ............................................................................................................ 5 
(a) 
Program Requirements............................................................................................ 5 
(b) 
Qualified Project Requirements 
.............................................................................. 7 
(c) 
Finance Agreement for Qualified Project ............................................................... 7 
(d) 
Levy and Recording of Benefit Assessment Lien 
................................................... 8 
(e) 
Annual Installment Liens 
........................................................................................ 8 
(f) 
Final Payment and Release  .................................................................................... 9 
(g) 
Billing and Collection of Annual Installment Amounts ......................................... 9 
(h) 
Collection of Delinquent Payments ...................................................................... 10 
4. 
Obligations of the Participating Municipality 
.............................................................. 10 
(a) 
Appointment of EIC as Agent............................................................................... 10 
(b) 
Assignment of Benefit Assessment Lien .............................................................. 10 
(c) 
Notices .................................................................................................................. 11 
(d) 
Promotion of Program; Assistance to EIC; Modification of Program 
.................. 11 
5. 
Indemnification ............................................................................................................... 12 
6. 
Term ................................................................................................................................. 12 
7. 
Default 
.............................................................................................................................. 12 
8. 
Remedies Upon Default .................................................................................................. 12 
9. 
Miscellaneous................................................................................................................... 13 
(a) 
Assignment or Transfer......................................................................................... 13 
(b) 
Severability ........................................................................................................... 13 
(c) 
Counterparts 
.......................................................................................................... 13 
(d) 
Notices .................................................................................................................. 13 
(e) 
Amendment and Waivers 
...................................................................................... 14 
(f) 
Governing Law ..................................................................................................... 14 
(g) 
Entire Agreement. ................................................................................................. 14 
Exhibit A – Certificate of Levy and Lien of Benefit Assessment .............................................. A-1 
Exhibit B – Assignment of Benefit Assessment Lien 
................................................................. B-1 
Exhibit C – Form of Consent of Mortgage Holders ................................................................... C-1 
Exhibit D – Satisfaction and Release of Lien of Benefit Assessment ........................................ D-1 
 
 
V30  
1 
ENERGY IMPROVEMENT CORPORATION 
MUNICIPAL AGREEMENT (OPEN C-PACE) 
This Agreement made as of this ___ day of ______, 2019 (the “Agreement”), by and 
between [County/City/Town/Village], a municipal corporation organized and existing under the 
laws of the State of New York (the “Participating Municipality”) and the Energy Improvement 
Corporation, a local development corporation formed under the laws of the State of New York 
(“EIC”) (both the Participating Municipality and EIC may hereinafter be referred to individually 
as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties”), sets forth the duties and obligations of each Party 
in connection with the Participating Municipality’s participation in the Energize NY Open C-
PACE Financing Program (“Open C-PACE” or the “Program”), as more fully described herein.  
Capitalized terms used herein, unless otherwise defined herein, have the meanings assigned to 
them in Section 1 herein. 
WHEREAS, EIC has established the Program as a sustainable energy financing program 
pursuant to the Enabling Act through which the member municipalities, including the Participating 
Municipality, may levy charges against Qualified Properties within the Participating Municipality 
for the purpose of promoting, facilitating and financing clean energy improvements to Qualified 
Properties, thereby promoting the public good by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, mitigating 
the effect of global climate change and lessening the burdens of government;  
WHEREAS, the Participating Municipality has adopted the Local Law authorizing the 
provision of financing through Open C-PACE to Qualified Properties within its geographical 
boundaries and has authorized EIC to act on its behalf to effectuate Open C-PACE within the 
Participating Municipality; and 
WHEREAS, EIC wishes to provide for the terms and conditions pursuant to which the 
Participating Municipality will participate in Open C-PACE. 
Now, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises contained in this Agreement, 
the Parties agree as follows: 
1. 
Definitions. 
“Annual Installment Amount” means, with respect to each Benefited Property, the amount 
of the Benefit Assessment to be repaid by the Benefited Property Owner in installments made at 
least annually, in accordance with the schedule attached to the Finance Agreement for such 
Benefited Property.  The Annual Installment Amount may be adjusted to reflect any Financing 
Charges as provided in Section 4(d) of this Agreement.  
“Authority” means The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, as 
defined by subdivision two of section 1851 of the Public Authorities Law of the State, or its 
successor. 
“Benefit Assessment” means, as of the date a Finance Agreement is executed, the charge 
assessed against the Qualified Property, as such assessment may be modified pursuant to Section 
4(d) of this Agreement, and as otherwise provided in the Finance Agreement. 
V30 
 
2 
“Benefit Assessment Lien” means a lien which evidences a Benefit Assessment and is 
recorded by EIC, on behalf of the Participating Municipality, on the land records against a 
Benefited Property.  
“Benefited Property” means a Qualified Property for which the Qualified Property Owner 
has entered into a Finance Agreement for a Qualified Project. 
“Benefited Property Owner” means the owner of record of a Benefited Property meeting 
requirements for participation in the Program as an owner. 
“Business Day” means any day on which EIC is open for business and banks are not 
required by law to close in New York, New York. 
“Eligible Costs” means costs incurred by the Benefited Property Owner in connection with 
a Qualified Project and the related Finance Agreement, including application fees, EIC’s Program 
administration fee, closing costs and fees, title and appraisal fees, professionals’ fees, permits, fees 
for design and drawings and any other related fees, expenses and costs, in each case as approved 
by EIC and the Financing Party under the Finance Agreement 
“Enabling Act” means Article 5-L of the General Municipal Law of the State, or a 
successor law, as in effect from time to time. 
“Energy Audit” is defined to have the meaning assigned thereto in the Enabling Act, as 
amended from time to time.  
“Energy Efficiency Improvement” is defined to have the meaning assigned thereto in the 
Enabling Act, as amended from time to time.  
“Finance Agreement” means a written agreement between a Financing Party and a 
Qualified Property Owner for the financing of a Qualified Project on the Qualified Property to 
which EIC, on behalf of the Participating Municipality, shall be a third-party beneficiary.  
“Financing Charges” means all charges, fees and expenses related to the Loan including 
accrued interest, capitalized interest, prepayment premiums and penalties as a result of a default 
or late payment and costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the Financing Party as a result 
of a foreclosure or other legal proceeding brought against the Benefited Property to enforce any 
delinquent Annual Installment Liens. 
“Financing Party” means any third-party capital provider approved by EIC to provide 
financing to Qualified Property Owners or other financial support to Open C-PACE which has 
entered into an agreement with EIC to administer Open C-PACE in the Participating Municipality. 
“Loan” means a loan made by a Financing Party to a Qualified Property Owner for a 
Qualified Project pursuant to Open C-PACE. 
“Local Law” means Local Law No. __ pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law and the 
Enabling Act, authorizing the provision of financing through the Energize NY Open C-PACE 
Financing Program. 
V30 
 
3 
“Municipal Lien” means a lien on Benefited Property which secures the obligation to pay 
real property taxes, municipal charges or governmentally imposed assessments in respect of 
services of benefits to a Benefited Property.  
“Non-Municipal Lien” means a lien on Benefited Property which secures any obligation 
other than the obligation to pay real property taxes, municipal charges, or governmentally-imposed 
assessments in respect of services or benefits to a Benefited Property Owner or Benefited Property. 
“Policies and Procedures” shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Section 3(a)(ii) of 
this Agreement. 
“Qualified Project” means the acquisition, construction, reconstruction or equipping of 
Energy Efficiency Improvements or Renewable Energy Systems or other projects authorized under 
the Enabling Act on a Qualified Property, together with a related Energy Audit, Renewable Energy 
System Feasibility Study and/or other requirements under or pursuant to the Enabling Act, with 
funds provided in whole or part by Financing Parties under the Program to achieve the purposes 
of the Enabling Act. 
“Qualified Property” means any real property, other than a residential dwelling containing 
less than three dwelling units, located within the boundaries of the Participating Municipality that 
has been determined to be eligible to participate in the Program under the procedures for eligibility 
set forth under this Agreement, the Local Law and the Enabling Act and has become the site of a 
Qualified Project. 
“Qualified Property Owner” means the owner of record of a Qualified Property meeting 
requirements for participation in the Program as an owner.  
“Renewable Energy Systems” is defined to have the meaning assigned thereto in the 
Enabling Act, as amended from time to time. 
“Renewable Energy System Feasibility Study” is defined to have the meaning assigned 
thereto in the Enabling Act, as amended from time to time. 
“RPTL” means the Real Property Tax Law of the State, as amended from time to time. 
“State” means the State of New York. 
2. 
Representation and Warranties of the Parties. 
(a) 
EIC. 
(i) 
EIC hereby represents that it is a local development corporation, duly 
organized under section 1411 of the Not-For-Profit Corporation Law of the 
State, authorized to implement the Program by arranging Loans to Qualified 
Property Owners and providing for repayment of the Loans from monies 
collected by or on behalf of the Participating Municipality as a Benefit 
Assessment. 
V30 
 
4 
(ii) 
EIC represents and warrants that it has complied with all laws and 
regulations concerning its organization, its existence and the transaction of 
its business and that all necessary steps have been taken to authorize it to 
execute, deliver and perform its respective obligations under this 
Agreement, and no consent or approval of any third-party is required for 
EIC’s execution of this Agreement or the performance of its obligations 
contained herein. The individual executing this Agreement on behalf of EIC 
has been and is duly authorized to bind EIC. 
(b) 
Participating Municipality. 
(i) 
Authority.  The Participating Municipality is a municipal corporation, 
constituting a tax district as defined in Section 1102 of the RPTL of the 
State, duly organized and existing under the laws of the State and has full 
legal right, power and authority to (i) adopt the Local Law, (ii) assess, 
collect, remit and assign Benefit Assessments for Benefited Properties 
located within its geographical boundaries, (iii) levy Benefit Assessment 
Liens against Benefited Properties located within its geographical 
boundaries, (iv) conduct its business and own its properties, (v) enter into 
this Agreement and to comply with its terms, and (vi) carry out and 
consummate, by contract or otherwise, all other transactions contemplated 
by its participation in Open C-PACE. 
(ii) 
Adoption of Local Law.  The Participating Municipality has on 
____________ adopted the Local Law authorizing the provision of 
financing through Open C-PACE to Qualified Properties for Qualified 
Projects.   
(iii) 
Approvals and Consents.  The Participating Municipality has duly approved 
the execution and delivery of this Agreement and approved implementation 
of Open C-PACE by EIC and has authorized EIC to act on its behalf in 
effectuating Open C-PACE; and any and all consents, authorizations and 
approvals of any third-party required with respect thereto have been 
obtained.  
(iv) 
Capacity.  The Participating Municipality has the legal, institutional, 
managerial, technical, contractual and financial capability to (a) ensure 
adequate and timely assessment and collection of property taxes in the 
Participating Municipality, (b) levy and record Benefit Assessment Liens 
on Benefited Properties within its geographical boundaries, and (c) assign 
or authorize EIC, on its behalf, to assign the Benefit Assessment Liens to 
third-party capital providers in connection with the financing of Qualified 
Projects.  
(v) 
Binding Obligation.  This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed 
and delivered by the Participating Municipality and constitutes a legal, valid 
and binding obligation of the Participating Municipality except as 
V30 
 
5 
enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, 
fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws 
affecting the enforcement of creditors’ rights generally and the application 
of general principles of equity by a court of competent jurisdiction (whether 
in an action of law or a proceeding in equity); the defense of sovereign 
immunity is not available to the Participating Municipality in any 
proceedings by EIC to enforce any of the obligations of the Participating 
Municipality under this Agreement. 
(vi) 
No Action.  There is no claim, action, suit, litigation, proceeding, arbitration, 
inquiry or investigation of any kind, at law or in equity, before or by any 
court, public board or body, pending or known to be threatened against the 
Participating Municipality, nor is there any basis therefore, (i) affecting the 
creation, organization or existence of the Participating Municipality or the 
title of its officers to their respective offices, (ii) seeking to prohibit, restrain 
or enjoin or in any way contest the execution of this Agreement, the Finance 
Agreement or any other agreement entered into in connection with the 
Participating Municipality’s participation in the Program, or (iii) seeking to 
prohibit, restrain, enjoin or in any way contesting or affecting the validity 
or enforceability of the Local Law, this Agreement or any agreement or 
instrument relating to any of the foregoing or used or contemplated for use 
in the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the 
foregoing. 
(vii) 
No Material Default.  The Participating Municipality is not in material 
default under any finance agreement, note, bond, mortgage or other 
instrument evidencing or securing indebtedness of the Participating 
Municipality.  The execution and delivery of this Agreement, and the 
adoption of the Local Law and compliance with the respective provisions 
hereof and thereof, will not conflict with or constitute a breach of or material 
default under any applicable law or administrative regulation of the State or 
the United States of America or any applicable judgment or decree or any 
agreement or other instrument to which the Participating Municipality is a 
party or by which it or any of its property is bound. 
3. 
Obligations of EIC. 
It is understood by the Parties that EIC will be responsible for the performance of the 
following duties: 
(a) 
Program Requirements. 
(i) 
The establishment and administration of Open C-PACE to provide 
financing to Qualified Properties within the Participating Municipality in 
order to promote, facilitate and finance Qualified Projects in accordance 
with the terms of the Local Law and this Agreement.  
V30 
 
6 
(ii) 
Receive and review (or provide for the review of) applications submitted by 
Qualified Property Owners within the Participating Municipality for the 
financing of Qualified Projects, and the approval or disapproval of such 
applications in accordance with the Authority’s guidelines, any restrictions 
imposed by the Participating Municipality, and the policies and procedures 
adopted by EIC with respect to Open C-PACE (the “Policies and 
Procedures”).  The governing Board of EIC reserves the right to reject an 
application for financing for any reason. 
(iii) 
Prepare and deliver to the Participating Municipality by February 15th of 
each calendar year an annual report (the “Annual Report”) which Annual 
Report may be filed by the Participating Municipality on the land records 
and shall contain information related to each Benefited Property within the 
Participating Municipality through December 31st of the immediately 
preceding calendar year, identified in the Annual Report by address and Tax 
Map Identification (i.e. section, block and lot) including: 
A. 
A list of each Benefited Property for which a Qualified Property 
Owner executed a Finance Agreement during the prior calendar year 
(for which a Benefit Assessment Lien was added by EIC, on behalf 
of the Participating Municipality, to its land records in accordance 
with Section 3(d) below); 
B. 
A list of each Benefited Property within the Participating 
Municipality where the Benefit Assessment and all obligations 
under the related Finance Agreement have been satisfied or paid in 
full during the prior calendar year, including the satisfaction date 
and a copy of the notice of satisfaction; 
C. 
The total Annual Installment Amount paid to each Financing Party  
for each Benefited Property in the Participating Municipality during 
the prior calendar year;  
D. 
For each Benefited Property with an outstanding Benefit 
Assessment, (i) the Annual Installment Amount collected in the 
current year, (ii) any amount of the Annual Installment Amount due 
and remaining uncollected in the current year, including any 
Financing Charges, and (iii) the Annual Installment Amount due to 
be collected in the following calendar year; and 
E. 
All other information EIC may deem to be relevant to each 
Benefited Property within the Participating Municipality. 
V30 
 
7 
(b) 
Qualified Project Requirements. 
If a Qualified Property Owner requests financing from EIC under the Program, EIC shall: 
(i) 
Require performance of an Energy Audit or Renewable Energy System 
Feasibility Analysis on the Qualified Property that assesses the expected 
energy cost savings of the Energy Efficiency Improvements or Renewable 
Energy Systems over the useful life of such Energy Efficiency 
Improvements and/or Renewable Energy Systems before approving such 
financing; 
(ii) 
Impose requirements and criteria to ensure that the proposed Energy 
Efficiency Improvements or Renewable Energy Systems are consistent with 
the purpose of the Program;  
(iii) 
Require that the Qualified Property Owner obtain the consent of any 
existing holder of a mortgage on the Qualified Property substantially in the 
form of Exhibit C attached hereto, prior to the recording of a Benefit 
Assessment Lien against the Qualified Property;  
(iv) 
Receive the certificates of completion executed by the Benefited Property 
Owner or its duly authorized representative during or following installation 
or construction of the Qualified Project to determine compliance with the 
Policies and Procedures; and 
(v) 
Verify and report to the Participating Municipality on the installation and 
performance of Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency 
Improvements financed by the Program. 
(c) 
Finance Agreement for Qualified Project.  The Financing Party and the Qualified 
Property Owner shall enter into a Finance Agreement for the  Qualified Project 
which shall set forth the terms and conditions for the disbursement and repayment 
of the Loan and the duties and obligations of the parties with respect to the 
acquisition, construction and installation of the Qualified Project.  EIC, on behalf 
of the Participating Municipality, shall be a third-party beneficiary to the Finance 
Agreement.  The Finance Agreement shall state (a) the legal description of the 
Benefited Property, (b) the total Benefit Assessment that will be levied against the 
Benefited Property which shall include the cost of the Qualified Project together 
with any Eligible Costs and Financing Charges approved by EIC and by the 
Financing Party, (c) the fixed rate of interest on the Loan, and (d) a schedule of the 
Annual Installment Amounts due in each year of the Loan.  Additionally, the 
Finance Agreement shall disclose the Financing Charges and risks associated with 
participation in the Program, including the risk of foreclosure in case of 
nonpayment of any Annual Installment Amount. Upon execution of the Finance 
Agreement by the Financing Party and the Qualified Property Owner, the property 
V30 
 
8 
that is the subject of the Finance Agreement shall be deemed a “Benefited 
Property.”  
(d) 
Levy and Recording of Benefit Assessment Lien.   
(i) 
Upon execution of a Finance Agreement, EIC, on behalf of the Participating 
Municipality, shall promptly record the Benefit Assessment Lien against 
the Benefited Property in the land records for properties in the Participating 
Municipality.  The Benefit Assessment Lien shall be substantially in the 
form of Exhibit A to this Agreement and include a legal description of the 
Benefited Property and a schedule of the Annual Installment Amounts due 
in each year of the Loan.  There shall be no charge, mortgage recording tax 
or other fee for recording the Benefit Assessment Lien on the land records 
for the Participating Municipality in the same manner as if recorded by the 
Participating Municipality.  As provided in the Enabling Act and the Local 
Law, the Benefit Assessment levied pursuant to this Agreement and the 
interest, fees and any penalties thereon shall constitute a lien against the 
Benefited Property on which they are made until they are paid. The Benefit 
Assessment shall be payable by the Benefited Property Owner in Annual 
Installment Amounts as provided in the Finance Agreement.  Only 
delinquent Annual Installment Amounts that are due and owing may be 
subject to enforcement.  
(ii) 
Pursuant to the Finance Agreement, the final amount of the Benefit 
Assessment may be adjusted after the recording of the Benefit Assessment 
Lien on the land records for the Participating Municipality.  Such an 
adjustment would likely be the result of a change in the energy improvement 
service contract amount during the construction period, additional 
Financing Charges, or an amendment to the Finance Agreement.  In the 
event that the final Benefit Assessment needs to be adjusted at the 
completion of the Qualified Project, or any other time, EIC, on behalf of the 
Participating Municipality, will record the new Benefit Assessment Lien on 
the land records to reflect such adjustment, together with a new schedule of 
Annual Installment Amounts.  Such recording of the new Benefit 
Assessment Lien against the Benefited Property shall be exempt from any 
charge, mortgage recording tax or other fee in the same manner as if 
recorded by the Participating Municipality.  
(e) 
Annual Installment Liens.   
(i) 
As provided in the Local Law, each Annual Installment Amount shall be 
considered a charge upon the Benefited Property and shall become a lien on 
the Benefited Property as of the first day of January of the fiscal year for 
which levied (the “Annual Installment Lien”) and shall remain a lien until 
paid.  Payment to the Financing Party shall be considered payment for this 
purpose.  Delinquent Annual Installment Amounts may accrue Financing 
Charges as may be provided in the Finance Agreement.  Any additional 
V30 
 
9 
Financing Charges imposed by the Financing Party pursuant to the Finance 
Agreement shall increase the Annual Installment Amount and the Annual 
Installment Lien for the year in which such overdue payments were first 
due. 
(ii) 
The Benefit Assessment Lien shall be automatically reduced annually by 
the amount of each Annual Installment Lien when each Annual Installment 
Lien becomes a lien.  Each Annual Installment Lien shall be subordinate to 
all Municipal Liens, whether created by Section 902 of the RPTL or any 
other State or Local Law.  No Annual Installment Amount shall be 
recovered by the Participating Municipality, EIC, or any assignee upon 
foreclosure, sale or other disposition of the Benefited Property unless and 
until all Municipal Liens are fully discharged.  Each Annual Installment 
Lien, however, shall have priority over all Non-Municipal Liens, 
irrespective of when created, except as otherwise required by law. 
(iii) 
Neither the Benefit Assessment Lien nor any Annual Installment Lien shall 
be extinguished or accelerated in the event of a default or bankruptcy of the 
Benefited Property Owner.  Each Annual Installment Amount shall be 
considered a charge upon the Benefited Property and shall be collected by 
EIC, on behalf of the Participating Municipality, at the same time and in the 
same manner as real property taxes or municipal charges.  Each Annual 
Installment Lien shall remain a lien until paid. Amounts collected in respect 
of an Annual Installment Lien shall be remitted to EIC or the Financing 
Party, as may be provided in the Finance Agreement. 
(f) 
Final Payment and Release.  Upon notice from the Financing Party that the Benefit 
Assessment has been satisfied and paid in full, together with all Eligible Costs and 
Financing Charges provided under the Finance Agreement, EIC, on behalf of the 
Participating Municipality, will execute a Satisfaction and Release of Benefit 
Assessment Lien (the “Release”) substantially in the form attached hereto as 
Exhibit D, and record the Release on the land records for the Participating 
Municipality.  There shall be no charge, mortgage recording tax or other fee for 
recording the Release on the land records for the Participating Municipality in the 
same manner as if recorded by the Participating Municipality. 
(g) 
Billing and Collection of Annual Installment Amounts. 
(i) 
The Finance Agreement shall provide for the repayment of the Benefit 
Assessment in Annual Installment Amounts. EIC will act as the 
Participating Municipality’s agent in the billing and collection of the 
Benefit Assessment for each Benefited Property listed in the Annual Report 
in accordance with the related Finance Agreement.  
(ii) 
In the event of a default in payment of any Annual Installment Amount for 
a Benefited Property, EIC agrees to take at least the following steps to 
V30 
 
10 
collect the delinquent Annual Installment Amount on behalf of the 
Participating Municipality:  
A. 
Mail a written notice of delinquency and demand for payment to the 
Benefited Property Owner by both certified mail, return receipt 
requested, and first class mail; and 
B. 
Mail a second notice of delinquency to the Benefited Property 
Owner by both certified mail, return receipt requested, and first class 
mail at least 30 days after the date of the first notice if the 
delinquency is continuing. 
(iii) 
If the Benefited Property Owner fails to cure the delinquency within 30 days 
after the mailing of the second notice of delinquency, then the Financing 
Party may redeem the Benefited Property and pursue collection of the 
delinquent Annual Installment Amounts as provided in paragraph (h) of this 
Section 3. 
(h) 
Collection of Delinquent Payments. 
(i) 
If any Benefited Property Owner fails to pay an Annual Installment 
Amount, the Financing Party may redeem the Benefited Property by paying 
the amount of all unpaid Municipal Liens thereon, and thereafter have the 
right to collect any amounts in respect of an Annual Installment Lien by 
foreclosure pursuant to the RPTL or any other remedy available at law.   
(ii) 
EIC shall provide written notice to the Participating Municipality of the 
institution of a judicial foreclosure or other proceeding against any 
Benefited Property located within the Participating Municipality for 
payment of delinquent Annual Installment Amounts. 
4. 
Obligations of the Participating Municipality. 
(a) 
Appointment of EIC as Agent.  The Participating Municipality hereby appoints EIC 
to act as its agent in the administration of the Open C-PACE Program within the 
Participating Municipality and in its dealings with Financing Parties, Qualified 
Property Owners and Benefited Property Owners.  EIC is authorized on behalf of 
the Participating Municipality to levy and record the Benefit Assessment Lien, any 
amendments or assignments thereof and the Release in the land records for 
properties in the Participating Municipality without charge, and to take any 
reasonable actions in the performance of its duties hereunder. 
(b) 
Assignment of Benefit Assessment Lien. 
(i) 
The Participating Municipality authorizes EIC, on its behalf, to sell or 
assign any and all Benefit Assessment Liens and Annual Installment Liens 
to a Financing Party that provides financing to a Qualified Property pursuant 
to a Finance Agreement.  The Assignment of Benefit Assessment Lien shall 
V30 
 
11 
be in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B, and shall be filed 
by EIC, on behalf of the Participating Municipality, in the land records for 
the Participating Municipality at the same time as the Benefit Assessment 
Lien.   
The Financing Party may sell or assign for consideration any and all Benefit 
Assessment Lien and Annual Installment Liens received from EIC, on behalf of the 
Participating Municipality, subject to certain conditions provided in the 
administration agreement between EIC and the Financing Party.  Any such 
assignment shall be in a form acceptable to EIC, and shall be filed by the Financing 
Party or, at its request and upon indemnification, by EIC, on the land records for 
the Participating Municipality.  The assignee or assignees of such Benefit 
Assessment Liens and Annual Installment Liens shall have and possess the same 
powers and rights at law or in equity as EIC would have had if the Benefit 
Assessment Lien and Annual Installments Liens had not been assigned with regard 
to the precedence and priority of such lien, the accrual of interest and the fees and 
expenses of collection.  There shall be no charge, mortgage recording tax or other 
fee for recording of any assignment on the land records for the Participating 
Municipality if filed by EIC, in the same manner as if recorded by the Participating 
Municipality. 
(c) 
Notices.   
(i) 
Within 10 days of EIC’s request, the Participating Municipality will provide 
written notice to EIC of any delinquency in the payment of real property 
taxes by a Benefited Property Owner if the Benefited Property is subject to 
a Benefit Assessment Lien.   
(ii) 
The Participating Municipality will also provide written notice to EIC of 
any sale or assignment of its real property taxes or any institution of a 
judicial foreclosure or other proceeding against any Benefited Property for 
delinquent real property taxes if such Benefited Property is subject to a 
Benefit Assessment Lien. 
(d) 
Promotion of Program; Assistance to EIC; Modification of Program. 
(i) 
The Participating Municipality shall use good faith efforts to assist EIC in 
local marketing efforts and outreach to the local business community to 
encourage participation in the Program such as including Program 
information on the Participating Municipality’s website. 
(ii) 
The Participating Municipality shall use good faith efforts to assist in 
gathering and providing information for EIC to administer the Program. 
(iii) 
Except with respect to Qualified Properties for which an application has 
previously been submitted, the Participating Municipality may at any time 
modify Open C-PACE by changing the types of properties that may receive 
financing for Qualified Projects. The Participating Municipality shall 
V30 
 
12 
provide written notice to EIC of such proposed modification.  The proposed 
modification shall only become effective upon written approval from EIC 
provided to the Participating Municipality, which shall not be unreasonably 
withheld.  Such approval shall have no effect on the duties and obligations 
owed by each Party hereto in connection with this Agreement and any 
Benefited Property for which a Finance Agreement was executed prior 
thereto. 
5. 
Indemnification 
EIC agrees that it will protect, defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Participating 
Municipality and its officers, agents and employees from and against all claims, demands, causes 
of action, damages, judgments, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees, arising 
out of or in connection with the negligent actions of EIC’s officers, employees and agents under 
this Agreement.  This provision shall survive termination of this Agreement. 
6. 
Term. 
The term of this Agreement shall commence upon the date first written above.  This 
Agreement shall be in full force and effect until all of the Benefit Assessments for 
Benefited Properties in the Participating Municipality have been paid in full or deemed no 
longer outstanding.  The Participating Municipality may opt-out of continuation in the 
program at any time on sixty (60) days advance notice to EIC, provided that the provisions 
of this Agreement shall continue with regard to Benefit Assessments assessed prior to such 
termination date until the Benefit Assessments have been paid in full or are no longer 
outstanding. 
7. 
Default. 
Each Party shall give the other Party written notice of any breach of any covenant or 
agreement under this Agreement and shall allow the defaulting Party 30 days from the date 
of its receipt of such notice within which to cure any such default or, if it cannot be cured 
within 30 days, to commence and thereafter diligently pursue to completion, using good 
faith efforts to effect such cure and to thereafter notify the other Party of the actual cure of 
any such default.  The Parties shall have all other rights and remedies provided by law, 
including, but not limited to, specific performance, provided, however, in no event shall 
either Party have the right to terminate this Agreement prior to the expiration of the Term, 
except as provided in accordance with Section 6 of this Agreement. 
8. 
Remedies Upon Default. 
Should the Participating Municipality default in any of its obligations hereunder, EIC shall 
be entitled to any remedy it may have at law and as set forth below. EIC may utilize any 
one or all of these remedies at EIC’s sole discretion: 
(a) 
EIC may sue the Participating Municipality for specific enforcement of this 
Agreement;  
V30 
 
13 
(b) 
EIC shall have the right to discontinue providing any new financings to Qualified 
Properties located within the Participating Municipality. 
(c) 
EIC may suspend the Participating Municipality’s membership in EIC.  
(d) 
EIC shall have all other rights and remedies provided by law. 
9. 
Miscellaneous. 
(a) 
Assignment or Transfer. 
Except as provided in Section 4(b) hereof, neither Party may assign or transfer its 
rights or obligations under this Agreement to another unit of local government, 
political subdivision or agency of the State or to a private party or entity without 
the prior written consent of the other Party.  
(b) 
Severability. 
If any clause, provision or section of this Agreement is held to be illegal or invalid 
by any court, the invalidity of the clause, provision or section will not affect any of 
the remaining clauses, provisions or sections, and this Agreement will be construed 
and enforced as if the illegal or invalid clause, provision or section has not been 
contained in it. 
(c) 
Counterparts. 
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which 
shall be deemed to be an original, and all of which together shall constitute but one 
and the same instrument.   
(d) 
Notices. 
Any and all notices, demands, or other communications required or desired to be 
given hereunder by either Party shall be delivered electronically and in writing by 
certified mail, return receipt requested as follows: 
EIC: 
 
Susan Morth 
CEO 
Energy Improvement Corporation 
2051 Baldwin Road 
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598 
E-mail:  susanm@energizeny.org 
V30 
 
14 
Alain Pierroz 
Chief Operating and Financial Officer 
Energy Improvement Corporation 
2051 Baldwin Road 
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598 
E-mail:  alainp@energizeny.org 
With a copy to: 
Anna Lee, Esq. 
Partner 
Norton Rose Fulbright US LLP 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, New York 10019 
E-mail: anna.lee@nortonrosefulbright.com 
 
PARTICIPATING MUNICIPALITY: ____________________________ 
With a copy to: 
[Participating Municipality’s counsel] 
Either Party hereto may change its address for purposes of this Section by providing written 
notice to the other Party in the manner provided above. 
(e) 
Amendment and Waivers. 
Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, any amendment to or waiver of 
any provision of this Agreement must be in writing and mutually agreed to by EIC 
and the Participating Municipality. 
(f) 
Governing Law. 
This Agreement shall be construed and governed in accordance with the laws of the 
State of New York. Any legal action to be brought under this Agreement must be 
instituted in State or Federal Courts having jurisdiction located in Westchester 
County, New York. 
(g) 
Entire Agreement. 
This instrument constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties with respect 
to the Open C-PACE Program and supersedes all previous discussions, 
understandings and agreements between the Parties relating to the Open C-PACE 
Program. 
 
 
V30  
15 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement as of the day and year 
first written above. 
Date: _____________, 20___ 
ENERGY IMPROVEMENT CORPORATION 
By:   
 
Name:   Susan Morth 
Title: 
Executive Director 
Date: _____________, 20___ 
PARTICIPATING MUNICIPALITY NAME: 
By:   
 
Name:   
Title:   
 
 
V30  
A-1 
EXHIBIT A 
 
CERTIFICATE OF LEVY AND LIEN OF BENEFIT ASSESSMENT 
Energy Improvement Corporation, a local development corporation formed under the laws 
of the State of New York (“EIC”), acting on behalf of [County/City/Town/Village] (the 
“Participating Municipality”) pursuant to Article 5-L of the General Municipal Law of the State 
of New York and the Local Law adopted by the Participating Municipality establishing the 
Energize NY Open C-PACE Financing Program in the Participating Municipality, and the 
Municipal Agreement between the Participating Municipality and EIC dated _______________ 
___, 2019, HEREBY LEVIES A BENEFIT ASSESSMENT AGAINST AND LIEN UPON 
certain real property commonly referred to as ______________________ and described more 
particularly in the attached Exhibit A (the “Benefited Property”), situated in the Participating 
Municipality and owned on the date hereof in whole or in part by _____________________ (the 
“Benefited Property Owner”), said levy and lien shall secure the repayment of financing for energy 
improvements or other improvements from time to time authorized by the Enabling Act made or 
to be made to the Benefited Property pursuant to that certain Finance Agreement, by and between 
the Benefited Property Owner and [Capital Provider] dated _______________ ___, 2019, as may 
be amended (the “Finance Agreement”).  The amount and repayment of said levy and lien, as 
determined by EIC, on behalf of the Participating Municipality, are as follows: an installment 
payment schedule set forth in the attached Exhibit B is in effect for payment of the Benefit 
Assessment, and is based on the principal amount of the Benefit Assessment of 
$________________, with interest thereon at a fixed rate equal to _____% per annum, with [#] 
annual installments of principal and interest (the “Annual Installment Amount”) due and payable 
pursuant to the Finance Agreement.  The Annual Installment Amount may be adjusted to reflect 
any permitted prepayments received or additional interest or charges due to late payments or 
defaults, as provided in the Finance Agreement.  
Each Annual Installment Amount shall be considered a charge upon the Benefited Property 
and shall become a lien on the Benefited Property as of the first day of January of the fiscal year 
for which levied (the “Annual Installment Lien”) and shall remain a lien until paid.  In the event 
that any Annual Installment Amount shall remain unpaid for thirty days after the same shall 
become due and payable, interest and other charges shall be charged upon the unpaid Annual 
Installment Amount at the rate of _____% per annum, as provided in the Finance Agreement.  All 
existing holders of any mortgage on the Benefited Property have consented to the levy and 
assessment of the Benefit Assessment Lien by the Participating Municipality against the Benefitted 
Property, and copies of such consents have been provided to EIC. 
At such time as the principal and interest payments of the Benefit Assessment have been 
satisfied and paid in full, a Satisfaction and Release of Benefit Assessment Lien shall be filed by 
EIC, on behalf of the Participating Municipality, in the land records for the Participating 
Municipality evidencing such release. 
This Certificate constitutes a certificate of lien and is filed pursuant to the provisions of the 
Local Law to evidence a lien for the Benefit Assessment levied upon the Benefited Property for 
the special benefits conferred upon said Benefited Property by the energy improvements related 
thereto. Pursuant to the Act, this lien shall take precedence over all other liens or encumbrances 
 
V30  
A-2 
except a lien for taxes of the Participating Municipality on real property, municipal charges, or 
governmentally imposed assessments in respect of services or benefits to the Property, which liens 
shall have priority over this lien.  
The portion of this Certificate which constitutes a levy of Benefit Assessment and notice 
of installment payment of Benefit Assessment is filed pursuant to the provisions of the Local Law 
and the General Municipal Law of the State of New York, as amended. 
Dated at ___________________, New York this ____ day of ________________ 20___. 
By: 
 
Energy Improvement Corporation 
Name: 
Title:   
Acknowledged and Agreed: 
this ____ day of ____________, 20____ 
 
 
 
                       Property Owner 
 
 
V30  
A-3 
STATE OF NEW YORK 
) 
 
) ss. 
_______________, 2019 
COUNTY OF _______________ 
) 
 
 
On this the ___ day of ___________________ 20___, before me _________________________, 
the undersigned officer, personally appeared _____________________________, known to me 
(or satisfactorily proven) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and 
acknowledged that he/she executed the same for the purposes therein contained and that he/she 
acknowledged the same to be his/her free act and deed, before me, in his/her capacity as an 
authorized officer of the Energy Improvement Corporation, acting on behalf of 
[County/City/Town/Village]. 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
 
V30  
A-4 
STATE OF NEW YORK 
) 
 
) ss. 
_______________, 2019 
COUNTY OF _______________ 
) 
 
On this the ___ day of ___________________ 20___, before me _________________________, 
the undersigned officer, personally appeared _____________________________, known to me 
(or satisfactorily proven) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and 
acknowledged that he/she executed the same for the purposes therein contained and that he/she 
acknowledged the same to be his/her free act and deed, before me, in his/her capacity as an 
authorized officer of [Property Owner], and free act and deed of said body politic and corporate, 
before me. 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
V30  
A-5 
Exhibit A- Property Description
 
V30  
A-6 
Exhibit B- Payment Schedule
 
V30  
A-7 
Received for Record: _______________ ___, 20___ at ________ A.M./P.M. 
Recorded in the ___________________ land records at Volume __________, Page _______. 
 
 
 
Clerk of [County/City/Town/Village] 
 
 
V30  
B-1 
EXHIBIT B 
 
ASSIGNMENT OF BENEFIT ASSESSMENT LIEN 
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that Energy Improvement Corporation, 
a local development corporation formed under the laws of the State of New York (hereinafter 
referred to as “EIC” or the “Assignor”), acting on behalf of [County/City/Town/Village], a New 
York municipal corporation (the “Municipality”), pursuant to Article 5-L of the General Municipal 
Law of the State of New York and the Local Law adopted by the Municipality establishing the 
Energize NY Open C-PACE Financing Program in the Municipality, and the Municipal 
Agreement between the Municipality and EIC dated _______________ ___, 2019 (the “Municipal 
Agreement”), in consideration of One Dollar ($1.00) and other valuable consideration, receipt of 
which is hereby acknowledged, hereby quit-claims, grants, bargains, sells, conveys, assigns, 
transfers and sets over unto [Capital Provider] (the “Assignee”) under that certain Finance 
Agreement, by and between the Benefited Property Owner and [Capital Provider] dated 
_______________ ___, 2019, as may be amended (the “Finance Agreement”), without warranty 
and without recourse, all of its right, title and interest in and to that certain Benefit Assessment 
Lien and each Annual Installment Lien and the debts secured thereby together with such interest, 
fees, and expenses of collection as may be provided by law, filed by EIC, on behalf of the 
Municipality, on the land records, on property owned on the date hereof in whole or in part by 
___________________ and as described on Exhibit A and also commonly referred to as 
__________________________, attached hereto and made a part hereof (the “Benefit Assessment 
Lien”), to have and to hold the same unto the said Assignee, its successor and assigns forever. 
This Assignment is made, given and executed pursuant to the authority granted to Assignor 
as agent of the Municipality pursuant to Article 5-L of the General Municipal Law of the State of 
New York, the Local Law and the Municipal Agreement. 
By execution of this Assignment, the Assignor assigns to Assignee, and the Assignee 
assumes, all of the rights at law or in equity, obligations, powers and duties as the Assignor or the 
Municipality would have with respect to the Benefit Assessment Lien, if the Benefit Assessment 
Lien had not been assigned with regard to precedence and priority of such Benefit Assessment 
Lien, the accrual of interest, charges, fees and expenses of collection, pursuant to the Local Law. 
This 
Assignment 
by 
the 
Assignor 
is 
absolute 
and 
irrevocable 
and 
the 
[County/City/Town/Village] shall retain no interest, reversionary or otherwise, in the Benefit 
Assessment Lien. 
 
V30  
B-2 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hands and seal this ____ day of 
__________________, 20___. 
Assignor 
 
 
By: 
 
Energy Improvement Corporation 
Name: 
Title:   
 
 
Acknowledged and Agreed: 
this ____ day of ____________, 20____ 
 
 
 
                       [Capital Provider] 
 
 
 
V30  
B-3 
STATE OF NEW YORK 
) 
 
) ss. 
_______________, 2019 
COUNTY OF _______________ 
) 
 
 
On this the ___ day of ___________________ 20___, before me _________________________, 
the undersigned officer, personally appeared _____________________________, known to me 
(or satisfactorily proven) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and 
acknowledged that he/she executed the same for the purposes therein contained and that he/she 
acknowledged the same to be his/her free act and deed, before me, in his/her capacity as an 
authorized officer of the Energy Improvement Corporation, acting on behalf of 
[County/City/Town/Village]. 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
V30  
B-4 
STATE OF NEW YORK 
) 
 
) ss. 
_______________, 2019 
COUNTY OF _______________ 
) 
 
 
On this the ___ day of ___________________ 20___, before me _________________________, 
the undersigned officer, personally appeared _____________________________, known to me 
(or satisfactorily proven) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and 
acknowledged that he/she executed the same for the purposes therein contained and that he/she 
acknowledged the same to be his/her free act and deed, before me, in his/her capacity as an 
authorized officer of [Capital Provider], and free act and deed of said body politic and corporate, 
before me. 
 
 
                                Notary Public 
 
 
 
V30  
B-5 
Received for Record: _______________ ___, 20___ at ________ A.M./P.M. 
Recorded in the ___________________ land records at Volume __________, Page _______. 
 
 
 
Clerk of [County/City/Town/Village] 
 
 
 
V30  
C-1 
EXHIBIT C 
 
FORM OF CONSENT OF MORTGAGE HOLDERS 
 
Date: _____ 
Address: _____ 
Owner: _____ 
Municipality: _____ 
APN: _____ 
Loan Number: _____ 
Estimated Annual Installment Amount: 
Maximum Benefit Assessment Amount: 
 
This Mortgage Holder Consent to Benefit Assessment (this “Consent”) is given by the undersigned 
entity, which is a mortgage holder (“Mortgage Holder”) on the above-referenced property (the 
“Property”) with respect to the above-referenced loan (the “Loan”). 
RECITALS 
Mortgage Holder is hereby notified that the above-referenced owner of the Property (the “Property 
Owner”) intends to finance installation on the Property of certain energy efficiency and/or 
renewable energy improvements that will be permanently fixed to the Property (the “Authorized 
Improvements”) by participating in the Energize NY Open C-PACE Financing Program (the 
“Program”), sponsored by the Municipality.  New York State General Municipal Law Article 5-L 
authorizes municipal corporations to create a sustainable energy financing program, such as the 
Program, to provide loans to property owners to achieve statewide energy efficiency and 
renewable energy goals, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate the effect of global climate 
change, and advance a clean energy economy. 
Mortgage Holder understands that, as a result of an agreement between Energy Improvement 
Corporation (“EIC”), on behalf of the Municipality, and the Property Owner, the Benefit 
Assessment described in the Notice will be levied on the Property, and that the Benefit Assessment 
will be collected in installments, in the same manner as and subject to the same remedies and lien 
priorities as real property taxes or municipal charges. 
CONSENT 
The undersigned hereby represents that it is authorized to execute this Consent on behalf of 
Mortgage Holder.  Mortgage Holder hereby confirms: 
A. 
Mortgage Holder understands that, as a result of an agreement between EIC, on behalf of 
the Municipality, and the Property Owner, the Benefit Assessment described herein will be levied 
on the Property, and that the Benefit Assessment will be collected in installments in the same 
manner as and subject to the same remedies and lien priorities as real property taxes or municipal 
charges.  Mortgage Holder acknowledges that each annual installment in respect of the Benefit 
 
V30  
C-2 
Assessment shall create an Annual Installment Lien, and if such annual installment is not paid 
when due, each Annual Installment Lien shall constitute a statutory lien on the Property that is 
superior to the lien of the Loan. 
B. 
Mortgage Holder acknowledges that the Benefit Assessment constitutes a statutory lien on 
the Property that is superior to the lien of the Loan. 
C. 
This Consent shall not prohibit Mortgage Holder from pursuing any and all rights and 
remedies available to collect from Property Owner all amounts due to it under the Loan documents.  
Mortgage Holder shall have the right to cure any nonpayment by Property Owner of real property 
taxes and assessments (including the Benefit Assessment) to the same extent as Mortgage Holder 
has a right to cure nonpayment of real property taxes. 
D. 
Mortgage Holder agrees that the levy of the Benefit Assessment will not constitute an event 
of default or trigger the exercise of any remedies under the Loan documents. 
Mortgage Holder hereby acknowledges that the Property Owner and the Municipality will rely on 
the representation and consent of Mortgage Holder set forth in this Consent.  
Dated this  
 day of  
 
, 2019 
 
MORTGAGE HOLDER 
 
 
By: 
 
Name: 
Title:  
 
V30  
C-3 
 
STATE OF NEW YORK 
) 
 
) ss. 
_______________, 2019 
COUNTY OF _______________ 
) 
 
 
On this the ___ day of ___________________ 20___, before me _________________________, 
the undersigned officer, personally appeared _____________________________, known to me 
(or satisfactorily proven) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and 
acknowledged that he/she executed the same for the purposes therein contained and that he/she 
acknowledged the same to be his/her free act and deed, before me, in his/her capacity as an 
authorized officer of the [Mortgage Holder], and the free act and deed of said body politic and 
corporate, before me. 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
 
 
V30  
D-1 
EXHIBIT D 
SATISFACTION AND RELEASE OF BENEFIT ASSESSMENT LIEN 
Energy Improvement Corporation, a local development corporation formed under the laws 
of the State of New York (“EIC”), acting on behalf of [County/City/Town/Village] (the 
“Participating Municipality”) pursuant to Article 5-L of the General Municipal Law of the State 
of New York (the “Enabling Act”) and the Local Law adopted by the Participating Municipality 
establishing the Energize NY Open C-PACE Financing Program in the Participating Municipality, 
and the Municipal Agreement between the Participating Municipality and EIC dated 
_______________ ___, 2019, having filed a Certificate of Levy and Lien of Benefit Assessment 
against the property of [Property Owner], on the ____ day of__________, 20__ in the land records 
of ________, Book _______ page _______ on the following described real property in _________, 
New York in the amount of $_______________: 
[Property description] 
NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned does hereby acknowledge satisfaction of the Lien 
of Benefit Assessment and does direct the Clerk of the [County/City/Town/Village] to release, 
cancel and discharge the Benefit Assessment Lien in accordance with the Enabling Act and the 
Local Law. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hands and seal this ____ day of 
__________________, 20___. 
Energy Improvement Corporation 
By: 
 
Name: 
Title:   
Acknowledged and Agreed: 
this ____ day of ____________, 20____ 
 
 
                       [Capital Provider] 
 
Acknowledged and Agreed: 
this ____ day of ____________, 20____ 
 
 
                       [Property Owner] 
 
V30  
D-2 
STATE OF NEW YORK 
) 
 
) ss. 
_______________, 2019 
COUNTY OF _______________ 
) 
 
 
On this the ___ day of ___________________ 20___, before me _________________________, 
the undersigned officer, personally appeared _____________________________, known to me 
(or satisfactorily proven) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and 
acknowledged that he/she executed the same for the purposes therein contained and that he/she 
acknowledged the same to be his/her free act and deed, before me, in his/her capacity as an 
authorized officer of the Energy Improvement Corporation, acting on behalf of 
[County/City/Town/Village]. 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public
 
V30  
D-3 
STATE OF NEW YORK 
) 
 
) ss. 
_______________, 2019 
COUNTY OF _______________ 
) 
 
 
On this the ___ day of ___________________ 20___, before me _________________________, 
the undersigned officer, personally appeared _____________________________, known to me 
(or satisfactorily proven) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and 
acknowledged that he/she executed the same for the purposes therein contained and that he/she 
acknowledged the same to be his/her free act and deed, before me, in his/her capacity as an 
authorized officer of the [Capital Provider], and the free act and deed of said body politic and 
corporate, before me. 
 
 
 
                              Notary Public 
 
 
V30  
D-4 
STATE OF NEW YORK 
) 
 
) ss. 
_______________, 2019 
COUNTY OF _______________ 
) 
 
On this the ___ day of ___________________ 20___, before me _________________________, 
the undersigned officer, personally appeared _____________________________, known to me 
(or satisfactorily proven) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and 
acknowledged that he/she executed the same for the purposes therein contained and that he/she 
acknowledged the same to be his/her free act and deed, before me, in his/her capacity as an 
authorized officer of [Property Owner], and the free act and deed of said body politic and corporate, 
before me. 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
 
V30  
D-5 
Received for Record: _______________ ___, 20___ at ________ A.M./P.M. 
Recorded in the ___________________ land records at Volume __________, Page _______. 
 
 
 
Clerk of [County/City/Town/Village] 
 
73909695.25 
LOCAL LAW NO. __– 20__ 
 
A LOCAL LAW TO ESTABLISH A SUSTAINABLE ENERGY LOAN 
PROGRAM (OPEN C-PACE) IN THE CITY OF ITHACA 
Be it enacted by the City of Ithaca (the “Municipality”) as follows: 
Section 1. This local law shall be known as the “Energize NY Open C-PACE Financing 
Program” and shall repeal and replace the existing provisions of Article VII, Chapter 4 of the 
City Code. This local law shall read as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
§1. 
Legislative findings, intent and purpose, authority. 
A. 
It is the policy of both the Municipality and the State of New York (the “State”) to 
achieve energy efficiency and renewable energy improvements, reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions, mitigate the effect of global climate change, and advance a clean energy 
economy. The Municipality finds that it can fulfill this policy by providing property 
assessed clean energy financing to Qualified Property Owners (as defined below) for 
the installation of renewable energy systems and energy efficiency measures. This local 
law establishes a program that will allow the Energy Improvement Corporation (as 
defined below, “EIC”), a local development corporation, acting on behalf of the 
Municipality pursuant to the municipal agreement (the “Municipal Agreement”) to be 
entered into between the Municipality and EIC, to make funds available to Qualified 
Property Owners that will be repaid through charges on the real properties benefited by 
such funds, thereby fulfilling the purposes of this local law and accomplishing an 
important public purpose.  This local law provides a method of implementing the public 
policies expressed by, and exercising the authority provided by, Article 5-L of the 
General Municipal Law (as defined below, the “Enabling Act”). 
B. 
The Municipality is authorized to execute, deliver and perform the Municipal 
Agreement and otherwise to implement this Energize NY Open C-PACE Financing 
Program pursuant to the Constitution and laws of New York, including particularly 
Article IX of the Constitution, Section 10 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, the 
Enabling Act and this local law. 
C. 
This local law, which is adopted pursuant to Section 10 of the Municipal Home Rule 
Law and the Enabling Act shall be known and may be cited as the “Energize NY Open 
C-PACE Local Law”. 
§2. 
Definitions 
A. 
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned in the 
Enabling Act. 
B. 
For purposes of this local law, and unless otherwise expressly stated or unless the 
context requires, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated: 
73909695.25 
- 2 - 
Annual Installment Amount – shall have the meaning assigned in Section 8, paragraph B. 
Annual Installment Lien – shall have the meaning assigned in Section 8 paragraph B. 
Authority – the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority. 
Benefit Assessment Lien – shall have the meaning assigned in Section 3, paragraph A. 
Benefited Property – Qualified Property for which the Qualified Property Owner has entered into 
a Finance Agreement for a Qualified Project. 
Benefited Property Owner – the owner of record of a Benefited Property. 
EIC – the Energy Improvement Corporation, a local development corporation, duly organized 
under section 1411 of the Not-For-Profit Corporation Law of the State, authorized hereby on behalf 
of the Municipality to implement the Program by providing funds to Qualified Property Owners 
and providing for repayment of such funds from money collected by or on behalf of the 
Municipality as a charge to be levied on the real property. 
Eligible Costs  – costs incurred by the Benefited Property Owner in connection with a Qualified 
Project and the related Finance Agreement, including application fees, EIC’s Program 
administration fee, closing costs and fees, title and appraisal fees, professionals’ fees, permits, fees 
for design and drawings and any other related fees, expenses and costs, in each case as approved 
by EIC and the Financing Party under the Finance Agreement 
Enabling Act – Article 5-L of the General Municipal Law of the State, or a successor law, as in 
effect from time to time. 
Finance Agreement – the finance agreement described in Section 6A of this local law.  
Financing Charges – all charges, fees and expenses related to the loan under the Finance 
Agreement including accrued interest, capitalized interest, prepayment premiums, and penalties as 
a result of a default or late payment and costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the 
Financing Party as a result of a foreclosure or other legal proceeding brought against the Benefited 
Property to enforce any delinquent Annual Installment Liens. 
Financing Parties – Third party capital providers approved by EIC to provide financing to 
Qualified Property Owners or other financial support to the Program which have entered into 
separate agreements with EIC to administer the Program in the Municipality.  
Municipality – the City of Ithaca, a municipality of the State constituting a tax district as defined 
in Section 1102 of the RPTL of the State. 
Municipal Lien – a lien on Qualified Property which secures the obligation to pay real property 
taxes, municipal charges, or governmentally imposed assessments in respect of services or benefits 
to a Qualified Property. 
73909695.25 
- 3 - 
Non-Municipal Lien – a lien on Qualified Property which secures any obligation other than the 
obligation to pay real property taxes, municipal charges, or governmentally-imposed assessments 
in respect of services or benefits to a Qualified Property Owner or Qualified Property. 
Program – the Energize NY Open C-PACE Financing Program authorized hereby. 
Qualified Project – the acquisition, construction, reconstruction or equipping of Energy 
Efficiency Improvements or Renewable Energy Systems or other projects authorized under the 
Enabling Act on a Qualified Property, together with a related Energy Audit, Renewable Energy 
System Feasibility Study and/or other requirements under or pursuant to the Enabling Act, with 
funds provided in whole or in part by Financing Parties under the Program to achieve the purposes 
of the Enabling Act. 
Qualified Property – Any real property other than a residential building containing less than three 
dwelling units, which is within the boundaries of the Municipality that has been determined to be 
eligible to participate in the Program under the procedures for eligibility set forth under this local 
law and the Enabling Act and has become the site of a Qualified Project. 
Qualified Property Owner – the owner of record of Qualified Property which has been 
determined by EIC to meet the requirements for participation in the Program as an owner, and any 
transferee owner of such Qualified Property. 
RPTL – the Real Property Tax Law of the State, as amended from time to time. 
Secured Amount – as of any date, the aggregate amount of principal loaned to the Qualified 
Property Owner for a Qualified Project, together with Eligible Costs and Financing Charges, as 
provided herein or in the Finance Agreement, as reduced pursuant to Section 8, paragraph C. 
State – the State of New York. 
§3. 
Establishment of an Energize NY Open C-PACE Financing Program 
A. 
An Energize NY Open C-PACE Financing Program is hereby established by the 
Municipality, whereby EIC acting on its behalf pursuant to the Municipal Agreement, 
may arrange for the provision of funds by Financing Parties to Qualified Property 
Owners in accordance with the Enabling Act and the procedures set forth under this 
local law, to finance the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, and installation of 
Qualified Projects and Eligible Costs and Financing Charges approved by EIC and by 
the Financing Party under the Finance Agreement.  EIC, on behalf of the Municipality, 
and with the consent of the Benefited Property Owner, will record a Benefit 
Assessment Lien on the Benefited Property in the Secured Amount (the “Benefit 
Assessment Lien”) on the land records for the Municipality.  Such recording shall be 
exempt from any charge, mortgage recording tax or other fee in the same manner as if 
recorded by the Municipality.  
B. 
Before a Qualified Property Owner and a Financing Party enter into a Finance 
Agreement which results in a loan to finance a Qualified Project, repayment of which 
is secured by a Benefit Assessment Lien, a written consent from each existing mortgage 
73909695.25 
- 4 - 
holder of the Qualified Property shall be obtained, permitting the Benefit Assessment 
Lien and each Annual Installment Lien to take priority over all existing mortgages. 
§4. 
Procedures for eligibility 
A. 
Any property owner in the Municipality may submit an application to EIC on such 
forms as have been prepared by EIC and made available to property owners on the 
website of EIC and at the Municipality’s offices. 
B. 
Every application submitted by a property owner shall be reviewed by EIC, acting on 
behalf of the Municipality, which shall make a positive or negative determination on 
such application based upon the criteria enumerated in the Enabling Act and § 5 of this 
local law. EIC may also request further information from the property owner where 
necessary to aid in its determination. 
C. 
If a positive determination on an application is made by EIC, acting on behalf of the 
Municipality, the property owner shall be deemed a Qualified Property Owner and shall 
be eligible to participate in the Program in accordance with § 6 of this local law. 
§5. 
Application criteria 
Upon the submission of an application, EIC, acting on behalf of the Municipality, shall make a 
positive or negative determination on such application based upon the following criteria for the 
making of a financing: 
A. 
The property owner may not be in bankruptcy and the property may not constitute 
property subject to any pending bankruptcy proceeding; 
B. 
The amount financed under the Program shall be repaid over a term not to exceed the 
weighted average of the useful life of Renewable Energy Systems and Energy 
Efficiency Improvements to be installed on the property as determined by EIC; 
C. 
Sufficient funds are available from Financing Parties to provide financing to the 
property owner; 
D. 
The property owner is current in payments on any existing mortgage on the Qualified 
Property; 
E. 
The property owner is current in payments on any real property taxes on the Qualified 
Property; and 
F. 
Such additional criteria, not inconsistent with the criteria set forth above, as the State, 
the Municipality, or EIC acting on its behalf, or other Financing Parties may set from 
time to time. 
73909695.25 
- 5 - 
§6. 
Energize NY Finance Agreement 
A. 
A Qualified Property Owner may participate in the Program through the execution of 
a finance agreement made by and between the Qualified Property Owner and a 
Financing Party, to which EIC, on behalf of the Municipality, shall be a third-party 
beneficiary (the “Finance Agreement”).  Upon execution and delivery of the Finance 
Agreement, the property that is the subject of the Finance Agreement shall be deemed 
a “Benefited Property”). 
B. 
Upon execution and delivery of the Finance Agreement, the Benefited Property Owner 
shall be eligible to receive funds from the Financing Party for the acquisition, 
construction, and installation of a Qualified Project, together with Eligible Costs and 
Financing Charges approved by EIC and by the Financing Party, provided the 
requirements of the Enabling Act, the Municipal Agreement and this local law have 
been met. 
C. 
The Finance Agreement shall include the terms and conditions of repayment of the 
Secured Amount and the Annual Installment Amounts. 
D. 
EIC may charge fees to offset the costs of administering the Program and such fees, if 
not paid by the Financing Party, shall be added to the Secured Amount. 
§7. 
Terms and conditions of repayment 
The Finance Agreement shall set forth the terms and conditions of repayment in accordance with 
the following: 
A. 
The principal amount of the funds loaned to the Benefited Property Owner for the 
Qualified Project, together with Eligible Costs and Financing Charges approved by EIC 
and by the Financing Party, shall be specially assessed against the Benefited Property 
and will be evidenced by a Benefit Assessment Lien recorded against the Benefited 
Property on the land records on which liens are recorded for properties within the 
Municipality.  The special benefit assessment shall constitute a “charge” within the 
meaning of the Enabling Act and shall be collected in annual installments in the 
amounts certified by the Financing Party in a schedule provided at closing and made 
part of the Benefit Assessment Lien.  Said amount shall be annually levied, billed and 
collected by EIC, on behalf of the Municipality, and shall be paid to the Financing Party 
as provided in the Finance Agreement.  
B. 
The term of such repayment shall be determined at the time the Finance Agreement is 
executed by the Benefited Property Owner and the Financing Party, not to exceed the 
weighted average of the useful life of the systems and improvements as determined by 
EIC, acting on behalf of the Municipality. 
C. 
The rate of interest for the Secured Amount shall be fixed by the Financing Party in 
conjunction with EIC, acting on behalf of the Municipality, as provided in the Finance 
Agreement. 
73909695.25 
- 6 - 
 
§8. 
Levy of Annual Installment Amount and Creation of Annual Installment Lien 
A. 
Upon the making of the loan pursuant to the Finance Agreement, the Secured Amount 
shall become a special Benefit Assessment Lien on the Benefited Property in favor of 
the Municipality.  The amount of the Benefit Assessment Lien shall be the Secured 
Amount.  Evidence of the Benefit Assessment Lien shall be recorded by EIC, on behalf 
of the Municipality, in the land records for properties in the Municipality.  Such 
recording shall be exempt from any charge, mortgage recording tax or other fee in the 
same manner as if recorded by the Municipality.  The Benefit Assessment Lien shall 
not be foreclosed upon by or otherwise enforced by the Municipality. 
B. 
The Finance Agreement shall provide for the repayment of the Secured Amount in 
installments made at least annually, as provided in a schedule attached to the Benefit 
Assessment Lien (the “Annual Installment Amount”).  The Annual Installment Amount 
shall be levied by EIC, on behalf of the Municipality, on the Benefited Property in the 
same manner as levies for municipal charges, shall become a lien on the Benefited 
Property as of the first day of January of the fiscal year for which levied (the “Annual 
Installment Lien”) and shall remain a lien until paid.  The creation or any recording of 
the Annual Installment Lien shall be exempt from any charge, mortgage recording tax 
or other fee in the same manner as if recorded by the Municipality.  Payment to the 
Financing Party shall be considered payment for this purpose.  Such payment shall 
partly or wholly discharge the Annual Installment Lien.  Delinquent Annual Installment 
Amounts may accrue Financing Charges as may be provided in the Finance Agreement.  
Any additional Financing Charges imposed by the Financing Party pursuant to the 
Finance Agreement shall increase the Annual Installment Amount and the Annual 
Installment Lien for the year in which such overdue payments were first due. 
C. 
The Benefit Assessment Lien shall be reduced annually by the amount of each Annual 
Installment Lien when each Annual Installment Lien becomes a lien.  Each Annual 
Installment Lien shall be subordinate to all Municipal Liens, whether created by 
Section 902 of the RPTL or by any other State or local law.  No portion of a Secured 
Amount shall be recovered by the Municipality, EIC, or an assignee upon foreclosure, 
sale or other disposition of the Benefited Property unless and until all Municipal Liens 
are fully discharged.  Each Annual Installment Lien, however, shall have priority over 
all Non-Municipal Liens, irrespective of when created, except as otherwise required by 
law. 
D. 
Neither the Benefit Assessment Lien nor any Annual Installment Lien shall be 
extinguished or accelerated in the event of a default or bankruptcy of the Benefited 
Property Owner.  Each Annual Installment Amount shall be considered a charge upon 
the Benefited Property and shall be collected by EIC, on behalf of the Municipality, at 
the same time and in the same manner as real property taxes or municipal charges.  
Each Annual Installment Lien shall remain a lien until paid.  Amounts collected in 
respect of an Annual Installment Lien shall be remitted to EIC, on behalf of the 
Municipality, or the Financing Party, as may be provided in the Finance Agreement.  
73909695.25 
- 7 - 
E. 
EIC shall act as the Municipality’s agent in collection of the Annual Installment 
Amounts.  If any Benefited Property Owner fails to pay an Annual Installment Amount, 
the Financing Party may redeem the Benefited Property by paying the amount of all 
unpaid Municipal Liens thereon, and thereafter shall have the right to collect any 
amounts in respect of an Annual Installment Lien by foreclosure or any other remedy 
available at law.  Any foreclosure shall not affect any subsequent Annual Installment 
Liens. 
F. 
EIC, on behalf of the Municipality, may sell or assign for consideration any and all 
Benefit Assessment Liens and Annual Installment Liens to Financing Parties that 
provide financing to Qualified Properties pursuant to Finance Agreements.  The 
Financing Parties may sell or assign for consideration any and all Benefit Assessment 
Liens and Annual Installment Liens received from EIC, on behalf of the Municipality, 
subject to certain conditions provided in the administration agreement between EIC 
and the Financing Party.  The assignee or assignees of such Benefit Assessment Liens 
and Annual Installment Liens shall have and possess the same powers and rights at law 
or in equity as the Municipality would have had if the Benefit Assessment Lien and the 
Annual Installment Liens had not been assigned with regard to the precedence and 
priority of such lien, the accrual of interest and the fees and expenses of collection.  
§9. 
Verification and report 
EIC, on behalf of the Municipality, shall verify and report on the installation and 
performance of Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvements 
financed by the Program in such form and manner as the Authority may establish. 
§10. 
Separability.  If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part of this local law shall 
be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not 
affect, impair or invalidate the remainder thereof, but shall be confined in its operation to the 
clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part thereof involved in the controversy in which such 
judgment shall have been rendered.  
Section 2. This local law shall take effect upon filing with the Secretary of State.  
 
 
 
 
City of Ithaca 
Planning & Economic Development Committee 
Wednesday, February 12, 2020 – 6:00 p.m. 
Common Council Chambers, City Hall, 108 East Green Street 
 
 
Minutes 
 
 
Committee Members Attending: 
Joseph (Seph) Murtagh, Chair; Cynthia 
Brock, Stephen Smith, Donna Fleming, and 
Laura Lewis 
 
 
Committee Members Absent: 
 
None 
 
Other Elected Officials Attending: 
Alderpersons McGonigal and Nguyen 
 
Staff Attending: 
JoAnn Cornish, Director, Planning and 
Development Department; Jennifer Kusznir, 
Senior Planner; Alex Phillips, Planner; Nels 
Bohn, Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency; and 
Deborah Grunder, Executive Assistant 
 
Others Attending: 
Ari Lavine, City Attorney 
 
Chair Seph Murtagh called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. 
 
 
1)  Call to Order/Agenda Review 
 
No Changes were made to the agenda. 
 
2)  Public Comment 
 
Theresa Alt, 206 Eddy Street, she is impressed how quickly the Planning 
Department they turned around the ADU ordinance.  Now PEDC needs to send it 
onto Council.   She further stated the R1 and R2 zones requirement for no more 
than one unrelated individuals would certainly make those zones pretty unsuitable 
for mass housing in small spaces.  Now, attention needs to be directed to code 
enforcement. 
 
Ellie Pfeffer, 1667 Clara Dickson Hall, reiterated Alt’s comments.  She thanked the 
City for all the hard work the City has done with the ADU ordinance.   She further 
stated that short-term rentals must come out of the equation.  It should be dealt with 
separately.  Right now it is possible in all zones for developers can buy up all these 
 
 
tenant housing.  Owner-occupancy requirements would kill the ADU ordinance.   
She urged the committee to pass this ordinance. 
 
Tom Shelley, 118 E. Court Street, supports the proposed ADU legislation, the green 
space requirement, and the tree ordinance that is being worked on.  The county 
recently passed the ban of Styrofoam.   The Governor will soon pass it.  He 
encourages Council to pass this ban as well.  He also encourages the City to ban 
the use of all plastics, i.e., plastic water bottles, food service carry out containers, 
etc. 
 
Steph Rutknowksik, as student, 218 Sheldon Court.  Thanked the committee for all 
the work being done on the ADU changes.  Student goals are the same as other 
members of the community.  He also expressed support in the new Green New Deal 
initiatives. 
 
Sheryl Swink, 321 N. Albany Street, served on the Waterfront Committee.  She 
stated the resolution and the letter regarding length don’t match.  They should.  She 
further commented on the proposed stepback recommendations.  She doesn’t find 
that the 20 feet stepback that is specified from the Market and Newman Districts to 
be very generous.   
 
Response from Council: 
 
Alderperson Lewis pointed out that ADUs is for discussion only tonight.  She 
recommended it be tabled until we receive further information, but it will be 
discussed tonight.  We need more guidance and recommendations. 
 
 
3)  Special Presentation 
 
a) 
Cayuga Street Bridge Project 
 
The presentation will take place at the March 2020 meeting. 
 
 
4)  Announcements, Updates, Reports 
 
The deadline for the sustainability director has passed.  More than 20 
applications have been submitted.  They will be reviewed this Friday.  It is a real 
robust response for a City job. 
 
 
5)  Action Items (Voting to Send on to Council) 
 
Nels Bohn, IURA Director, provided information on the contingent purchase 
agreement.   
 
 
 
Alderperson Lewis had some questions.  She thanked Nels for all the work done 
on this project.   
 
Attorney Lavine further clarified that there are two things happening here.  There 
is an agreement of the sale of the property and then the building of the project. 
Each steps will be voted on separately. 
 
Alderperson Brock asked for clarification as to parking.  Parking will be two 
individual parking systems?   
 
Bohn stated that the parking will be handled by two different developers. 
 
Alderperson Brock further asked if the number of parking spaces will be 
equivalent to what is there now.  She raised concern regarding the lack of 
redundancy of elevators so that all floors are handicapped accessible.  She 
further asked about the lease agreement for the parking.  Bohn stated it will be a 
flat fee payment each year for a 30-year agreement.   
 
Alderperson Brock asked what the debt service total is.  Bohn answer $9.5 
million. 
 
Alderperson Nguyen joined the meeting at 6:35 p.m. 
 
Chair Murtagh asked for clarification of the displacement of Sunny Days and 
Home Green Home.  Will they be able to move back? 
 
Bohn stated that the IURA made it firm that any displacement will be remedied 
prior to any agreement. 
 
 
a)  Contingent Purchase Agreement – East Section of Green Street Urban 
Renewal Project Site 
 
 
Proposed Ordinance ____‐ 2020 
Planning & Economic Development Committee 
February 12, 2020 
 
Contingent Purchase Agreement – East Section of Green Street Urban Renewal Project Site  
Moved by Alderperson Smith; seconded by Alderperson Lewis.  Carried unanimously. 
WHEREAS, Ithaca Properties, LLC proposes to purchase an approximately 192’ x 119’ property 
at the eastern section of the Green Street parking garage site located at 120 East Green 
Street, Ithaca, NY (Premises) to undertake an urban renewal project, subject to Common 
Council approval, and  
 
WHEREAS, the Premises consists of air rights above a privately‐owned ground floor 
commercial use and contains two elevated public parking decks constructed in 1974, and 
 
 
  
WHEREAS, Ithaca Properties, LLC is the owner of a commercial building located at 215 East 
State Street that extends immediately under and is thereby connected to the Premises, and 
 
WHEREAS, on June 27, 2019, the Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency (IURA) designated Ithaca 
Properties, LLC as a “qualified and eligible sponsor” to potentially acquire the Premises to 
undertake an urban renewal project, and 
 
WHEREAS, on December 23, 2019, the IURA endorsed a definition for a proposed urban 
renewal project at the Premises that includes reconstruction of two public parking decks to 
be leased back to the City for operation, and 
 
WHEREAS, the Premises is encumbered by a 2014 purchase option held by Hotel Ithaca, LLC, 
the owners of the downtown Marriott Hotel, to acquire the Premises for $1 in the event the 
City of Ithaca proposes to decommission or convey the Premises, and 
 
WHEREAS, Hotel Ithaca, LLC has 12 months from the date of notice to exercise their option to 
acquire the Premises, and 
 
WHEREAS, a 2016 structural study of the Green Street parking garage conducted by Stantec 
revealed that significant structural deficiencies exist in the east section that will require a 
sizable capital investment to address, and   
 
WHEREAS, the Stantec study estimated the cost to the City to demolish the east section at 
more than $2,030,000 in 2019 dollars, and 
 
WHEREAS, a 2019 appraisal by Midland Appraisal Associates, Inc. concluded the market value 
of the Premises is $2,380,000, assuming a structural platform is in place to support 
construction of a building utilizing the 140 ft. zoning envelop, and 
 
WHEREAS, the existing structural system supporting the two parking decks does not support 
high‐rise development, and  
 
WHEREAS, the negotiated purchase price of $350,000 represents a reasonable fair market 
value of the Premises after the avoided demolition cost is considered, and 
 
WHEREAS, on February 18, 2020, the Board of Public Works considered whether retention of 
ownership of the Premises is necessary for municipal purposes, and 
 
WHEREAS, the purchase agreement is contingent on City of Ithaca Common Council approval 
of an IURA‐proposed disposition and development agreement with Ithaca Properties, LLC to 
implement an urban renewal project, and 
 
WHEREAS, the City Charter requires approval by three‐fourths of the Common Council to 
authorize sale of real property;  
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City Charter further requires notice of a proposed sale to be published no less 
than once each week for three weeks, the first such notice being published no less than 30 
days prior to the approval vote, and such notices have been published; now, therefore, 
 
BE IT ORDAINED AND ENACTED by the Common Council of the City of Ithaca as follows: 
 
Section 1.  Authorization for Disposition. 
a. City ownership of the above‐described Premises is surplus for municipal purposes. 
 
b. The Common Council for the City of Ithaca hereby authorizes the contingent sale of 
approximately 22,800 square feet of air rights  property located at the eastern section 
of the Green Street parking garage site (part of tax parcel #70.‐4‐5.2) to Ithaca 
Properties, LLC at a purchase price of $350,000.  The closing of the sale is contingent 
upon Common Council approval of an Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency proposed 
disposition and development agreement to implement an urban renewal project.   
 
c. The Mayor, subject to advice of the City Attorney, is hereby authorized to execute a 
contingent purchase agreement substantially similar to the “Purchase Agreement, 
Eastern Section of Green Street Garage Urban Renewal Project Site” document, dated 
2/7/20, to implement this resolution.   
 
Section 2.  Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect immediately. 
 
b)  Waterfront Area and Stepback Requirement 
 
Approval to Circulate – Alderperson Smith moved to circulate; seconded 
by Alderperson Lewis.  Carried unanimously. 
 
Alderperson Smith questioned whether the stepback requirement is necessary.  
He doesn’t think that there is any canyon effect. 
 
Alderperson Lewis stated there are residents who live across the inlet that have 
stated their concerns.   
 
Alderperson McGonigal also served on the Waterfront Committee.  The setbacks 
were closely focused on the narrow walkway in the inlet island area. He 
suggested to keep the stepback along Inlet Island.  If it needs tweaking, the 
building height could be reduced to a four-story maximum. 
  
 
PLANNING COMMITTEE: 
An Ordinance Amending the Municipal Code of the City Of Ithaca, Chapter 325, 
Entitled “Zoning” To Establish New Zoning for the Waterfront Area 
ORDINANCE NO. ____ 
 
 
 
 
BE IT NOW ORDAINED AND ENACTED by the Common Council of the City of Ithaca 
that Chapter 325 of the City Code be amended as follows: 
 
Section 1.  Chapter 325-3B of the Municipal Code of the City of Ithaca, 
entitled “Definitions and Word Usage”, is hereby amended to add the 
following new definition: 
 
ROW HOUSE 
A residential structure composed of three or more attached modules 
with shared sidewalls, the facade of each module measuring no more 
than 25 feet in length. Modules within a row house may consist of a 
single dwelling unit or may contain multiple vertically stacked 
dwelling units. Each module must have one street-facing entry. 
 
Section 2.  Chapter 325-45.2B, Definitions for Collegetown Districts, is 
hereby amended to remove the definition of “Row House”. 
 
Section 3.  Section 325-8, District Regulations, is hereby amended to change 
the permitted primary uses in the Cherry, West End/Waterfront, the Market, 
and the Newman Districts in order to replace townhouse with row houses in 
each of these districts. 
 
Section 4.  Section 325-8, District Regulations, is hereby amended to change 
the minimum front yard setback in the Cherry Street, West End/Waterfront, 
the Market, and the Newman Districts to only read 5’ minimum required front 
yard setback measured from the inside edge of the sidewalk. 
 
Section 5.  Section 325-8C. Additional Restrictions in the West End/ 
Waterfront, the Cherry Street District, the Market District, and the Newman 
Districts, is hereby amended to add new subsections (5) and (6), to read as 
follows: 
 
(5)Sidewalk and Tree Lawn Requirements.  All new construction located 
in the Cherry Street, the West End/Waterfront, the Market, or the 
Newman Districts must provide a 8’ tree lawn and 5’ sidewalk along 
the street frontage of the property.  The Planning Board may amend 
this requirement based on site conditions. 
 
(6) 
Maximum Building Length.  All new structures located within the 
Cherry Street District and the West End/Waterfront District shall be 
constructed to be no more than 100’ in length.  Exceptions to 
maximum building length may be granted by the Planning Board. 
 
Section 6. Section 325-8C.(3), “Stepback Requirements” is 
hereby amended to remove the stepback requirements in the 
Newman and Market Districts. 
 
Section 7.  The City Planning and Development Board, the City 
Clerk and the Planning Department shall amend the district 
 
 
regulations chart in accordance with the amendments made 
herewith. 
 
Section 8.  Severability. Severability is intended throughout and within the 
provisions of this local law.  If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, 
phrase 
or 
portion 
of 
this 
local 
law 
is 
held 
to 
be 
invalid 
or 
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, then that decision 
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion. 
 
Section 9.  Effective date. This ordinance shall take effect immediately and 
in accordance with law upon publication of notices as provided in the Ithaca 
City Charter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6)  Approval to Circulate 
 
a) Special Permits – Alderperson Smith; seconded by Alderperson 
Lewis.  Carried unanimously. 
 
 
Alderperson Fleming would like to see something more similar to a PUD with 
additional language that specifies some kind of public benefit such as 
affordable housing must be a part of the project.  She further stated the 
proposal offers two different sets of rules for multiple primaries and for ADUs. 
 
Chair Murtagh stated he sees them as very different types of development.  A 
multiple primary is a new one-family house or duplex on a larger lot.  An ADU 
is converting a small space in a house or garage into an apartment.                                   
 
 
 
To:  
 
Planning & Economic Development Committee 
From:  
Jennifer Kusznir, Senior Planner  
Date:   
February 6, 2020 
RE: 
Proposed Amendments to Establish Criteria for Granting Special Permits 
for Multiple Primary Structures 
 
 
The City is currently considering a proposal to establish guidelines for accessory dwelling 
units.  The proposal includes a restriction for multiple primary structures to only be allowed by 
a special permit.  In order to provide guidance to the Planning Board when determining 
whether or not to grant a special permit staff is proposing the following amendments to the 
special permits sections of the City Code, sections 325-9 and 325-10.   
 
• 
Section 325-9B.(1)(a).Special Permits-Applicability  
• 
Replace (a) “Accessory Apartments” with “Multiple Primaries” 
 
 
• 
Section 325-9D(1)(b)- Special Permits-Permit Review Criteria, shall be amended as 
follows: 
 
• 
The Planning and Development Board shall deny a special permit where it finds that a 
proposed use would have a significant negative impact on traffic, parking, congestion, 
environment, property values, municipal services, character of the surrounding neighborhood, 
stormwater runoff, or if the use is not in line with the City Comprehensive Plan, including 
considerations of occupant load, night operation, and the use of chemical, biological, or 
radioactive agents expected in connection with the proposed activity, as well as failure to meet 
any additional conditions in Section 325-10.  
 
• 
Section 325-10C. Additional Conditions for Special Permits-(1.) “Accessory 
Apartments” be replaced in its entirety with the following: 
• 
Multiple Primary Structures.  The following specific conditions shall be applicable to 
all special permits for multiple primary structures:  
(a) Additional primary structures should not result in a significant loss of green space. 
(b) Additional primary structures should not result in the removal of significant 
trees. 
(c)  Property Owners applying for a special permit should have separate utilities for 
multiple primary structures. 
 
If you have any concerns or questions regarding any of this information, feel free to contact us 
at 274-6410. 
 
 
7)  Discussion 
 
a) Accessory Dwelling Units 
 
 
Chair Murtagh’s concerns are with short term rentals. 
 
Director Cornish stated that short-term rentals is difficult legislation. 
 
Alderperson McGonigal stated that in Watkins Glen they’re facing extreme 
problems with young people not finding a place to rent or buy because it’s 
bought up quickly by developers who rent it by the week.  That may happen to 
Ithaca. 
 
Alderperson Brock’s concern is with storm water runoff.  Too many additional 
dwellings are the cause of more storm water runoff.   
 
Director Cornish stated that South Hill has a serious problem with storm water 
because of its geology and topography.  
 
 
 
Planner Phillips stated that short-term rentals are subject to three-year 
inspections. 
 
Alderperson Lewis stated that the Bell Sherman neighborhood is very similar to 
South Hill. 
 
Alderperson Fleming stated her concern of having two separate rules for the 
very same thing in different neighborhoods. 
 
Chair Murtagh asked whether we are sending this on before short-term rentals 
legislation is enforced.  He further stated that there are so many AirBnBs in the 
City which aren’t regulated.  Should we tackle short-term rentals first? He asked 
how long it will take to setup the regulations. 
 
Director Cornish stated that it won’t be easy.  The Town of Ithaca and Cayuga 
Heights have just passed short-term rental legislation.  The City should review 
their legislation. 
 
Alderperson Smith stated the majority of the committee agrees that owner 
occupancy should be a requirement for short-term rentals and ADUs. 
 
Director Cornish stated it was suggested that this should be reviewed by the 
Committee of the Whole.  There is a possible February date. 
 
 
 
 
 
To:  
Planning and Economic Development Committee 
From: 
Jennifer Kusznir, Senior Planner  
 
Alexander Phillips, Planner 
Date:  
December 6, 2019 
Re: 
Establishment of Regulations for Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) 
 
The purpose of this memo is to provide information on a proposal to establish regulations for developing ADUs in 
the R-1 and R-2 zoning districts.   
This proposal was last discussed at the February Common Council meeting.  At that meeting the Common 
Council discussed the following: 
 Council voted to amend the proposed ordinance to include a whereas statement that 
explains that the South hill Overlay District will remain in place until after a South Hill 
neighborhood can be completed.  The enclosed draft ordinance reflects this change. 
 The proposed Council discussed an option to include a maximum size for attached 
accessory dwelling units (AADU).  The draft that was presented to Council stated that 
AADU that do not change the exterior of the house do not have a maximum size.  
 
 
 
However, several council members Council requested that a maximum size of 40% of 
the primary structure be added.    
 Council also discussed the possibility of developing incentive zoning to encourage 
owner occupancy.  In order to encourage owner occupancy the City could waive some 
of the ADU requirements in owner occupied properties, such as allowing multiple 
primaries as of right without a special permit, removing the size cap for AADUs, or 
eliminating the contiguous green space requirement.   
 
If you have any concerns or questions regarding any of this information, feel free to 
contact us at 274-6410. 
 
 
PLANNING COMMITTEE: 
An Ordinance Amending the Municipal Code of the City Of Ithaca, Chapter 325, 
Entitled “Zoning” In Order to Establish Regulations for the Development of 
Accessory Dwelling Units 
ORDINANCE NO. ____ 
 
 
1. WHEREAS, in 2017, the City  established the South Hill Overlay District 
(SHOD) in response to concerns that were raised by the South Hill 
neighborhood rapid in-fill development of multiple primary structures(in 
the neighborhood and the impacts on both the aesthetic qualities and the 
character of the neighborhood, and 
2. WHEREAS, the SHOD was intended to be a temporary measure to prevent 
further development  until the City could establish regulations for this 
type of infill (ADUs), and  
3. WHEREAS, in the interim, similar concerns about development pressure were 
raised throughout the City, and   
4. WHEREAS, City staff were directed to research how infill(ADUs)development 
is regulated in other municipalities, and  
5. WHEREAS, 
Planning 
Staff 
spent 
several 
months 
researching 
other 
communities and developing proposals to encourage the development of 
accessory dwelling units (ADUs) that would protect neighborhoods while 
allowing for housing options that could provide property owners with 
additional income, and 
6. WHEREAS, on August 29, 2019, a community meeting was held, with 
approximately 70 people in attendance, who offered  opinions on options 
to allow the development of appropriate ADUs, and 
7. WHEREAS, and staff has considered feedback from the public,  the Common 
Council, and other communities and has developed a set of regulations 
allowing property owners to develop ADUs, where appropriate, and the 
means to protect neighborhoods from the negative impacts of over 
development, and 
 
 
 
8. WHEREAS, this ordinance does not repeal the South Hill Overlay District, 
which shall remain in place until the South Hill Plan is completed, now 
therefore be it 
 
ORDAINED AND ENACTED by the Common Council of the City of Ithaca 
that Chapter 325, Zoning, be amended as follows: 
 
Section 1.  Chapter 325-3B of the Municipal Code of the City of Ithaca, 
entitled “Definitions and Word Usage”, is hereby amended to add the 
following new definitions: 
 
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)— A second dwelling unit located in the 
rear or side yard on a lot with any one-family dwelling in R-1 and CR-1 
zoning districts, or in any one-family dwelling or two-family dwelling in R-
2 and CR-2 zoning districts(see Section 2.-F.3d). The second unit is created 
secondary to, and is always smaller than the primary one-family dwelling. 
The unit includes its own independent habitable space including provision 
for sleeping, cooking, and sanitation, and is designed to be occupied by an 
individual or a family, plus not more than one unrelated occupant, 
independent of the primary dwelling unit.  
 
1. Attached Accessory Dwelling Unit (AADU) – A room or set of  rooms, 
basement, or any other space that is located within a  
primary 
structure, but is established as a separate dwelling  
unit.  AADUs may 
be occupied by an individual or a family,  
plus 
not 
more 
than 
one 
unrelated occupant. 
2. Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit (DADU) – A separate  dwelling 
unit 
that is constructed on a single family lot that is not connected to the 
primary structure.  DADUs may be occupied by an individual or a family, 
plus not more than one unrelated occupant. 
3. 
Out Building Conversion - A separate dwelling unit that is converted 
from an existing garage, carriage house, or other accessory structure. 
Out Building Conversion’s may be occupied by an individual or a family, 
plus not more than one unrelated occupant. 
 
 
Contiguous Green Space - Green Space on a lot that is uninterrupted 
by structures or paved surfaces. Contiguous green space must be at 
least 15’ in width.   
 
 
Section 2.  Chapter 325-8 of the Municipal Code of the City of Ithaca, 
entitled “District Regulations”, is hereby amended to add a new section F, 
entitled “Additional Restrictions in the R-1, R-2, CR-1, and CR-2 Zoning 
Districts”, to read as follows: 
 
F. 
Additional Restrictions in the R-1, R-2, CR-1, and CR-2 Zoning 
Districts. 
(1) 
Intent. This section authorizes the installation of accessory 
dwelling units in the R-1, R-2, CR-1, and CR-2 districts. The 
purpose and intent of permitting accessory dwelling units is: 
 
 
(a) 
To provide homeowners, especially those of low and 
moderate income, with a means of obtaining through rental 
income, companionship, security and services and thereby 
to enable them to stay more comfortably in homes and 
neighborhoods they might be forced to leave. 
(b) 
To add inexpensive rental units to the housing stock to 
meet the needs of smaller households, both young and old. 
(c) 
To make housing units available to low- and moderate- 
income households who might otherwise have difficulty 
finding homes within the City. 
(d) 
To develop housing units in family neighborhoods that are 
appropriate for households at a variety of stages in the 
lifecycle, thereby lessening fluctuations in neighborhood 
demand for services. 
(e) 
To preserve and allow more efficient use of the City’s 
existing stock of dwellings while ensuring healthy and 
safe living environments.  
(f) 
To allow for the creation of additional housing, while 
minimizing impacts to surrounding properties.   
(2) 
General Restrictions. 
(a) 
In the R-1, R-2, CR-1, and CR-2 Zoning Districts, only one 
primary structure is permitted as of right, the Planning 
Board may grant multiple primary structures by special 
permit. 
 
(3) 
Additional Requirements for Accessory Dwelling Units 
(a) 
All Accessory Dwelling Units that have any exterior 
changes to existing structures or any new ADUs that are 
new construction are subject to site plan review. 
(b) 
Number of Accessory Dwelling Units. Only one accessory 
dwelling unit, attached or detached, is permitted on a 
lot. 
(c) 
Parking. No additional parking is required for accessory 
dwelling units.  
(d) 
Location. Accessory Dwelling Units may be located on any 
lot in the CR-1 or R-1 zoning district that contains a 
one-family dwelling and on any lot in the CR-2 and R-2 
zoning district that contains a one- or two-family 
dwelling.  ADUs are permitted in any side or rear yard but 
not in the required front yard. Corner Lots shall be 
considered to have two front yards.  
(e) 
Additional Requirements for Detached ADUs. 
[1] 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this 
section, Setbacks for ADUs are consistent with 
existing zoning setbacks for primary structures 
[2] 
A DADU may not be placed less than 5 feet from the 
primary structure. 
[3] 
ADUs are not subject to the maximum lot coverage 
requirement, however, properties with ADUs are 
required to maintain 35% contiguous green space. 
 
 
. 
 
 
 
 
 
(f) 
Number of Residents. Accessory Dwelling Units may be 
occupied by an individual or a family, plus not more than 
one unrelated occupant. 
 
(g) 
Appearance of Accessory Dwelling Units. Accessory Dwelling 
Units should not disrupt the overall architectural 
character of the neighborhood. A similar architectural 
style and roof pitch should connect the primary structure 
to the accessory dwelling unit. 
[1] 
Location of Entrances. New or additional front 
entrances are discouraged, but in any event must be 
compatible with the architectural style of the 
existing structure. Detached accessory dwelling 
units (DADU) are exempt from this standard. 
(h) 
Size Allowances.  
[1] 
Detached Accessory Dwelling Units- The maximum size 
of a DADU may be no more than 75% of the habitable 
area of the primary structure or 800 square feet, 
whichever is less.  
[2] 
Attached Accessory Dwelling Units- The maximum size 
of an AADU that is added onto the existing structure 
may be no more than 33.3% of the habitable area of 
the primary structure.  AADUs which do not change 
the exterior appearance of the primary structure 
have no maximum size limit. 
[3] 
Out Building Conversion- Outbuilding conversions are 
exempt from all area requirements, including maximum 
lot coverage requirements, minimum green space 
requirements, and any setback requirements.  
  
 
Section 3.  Chapter 325-10 of the Municipal Code of the City of Ithaca, 
entitled “Accessory Apartments”, is hereby deleted in its entirety. 
 
 
 
 
Section 4.  The City Planning and Development Board, the City 
Clerk and the Planning Department shall amend the district 
regulations chart in accordance with the amendments made 
herewith. 
 
Section 5.  Severability. Severability is intended throughout and within the 
provisions of this local law.  If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, 
phrase 
or 
portion 
of 
this 
local 
law 
is 
held 
to 
be 
invalid 
or 
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, then that decision 
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion. 
 
Section 6.  Effective date. This ordinance shall take effect immediately and 
in accordance with law upon publication of notices as provided in the Ithaca 
City Charter. 
 
 
b) 2020 Planning Department Work Program 
 
Director Cornish asked that the work program be reviewed and let staff know 
which neighborhood plan to work on next. 
 
 
8)  Review and Approval of Minutes 
 
a)  December 2019 – minutes were not ready to be acted on 
 
9)  Adjournment 
 
Moved by Alderperson Smith; seconded by Alderperson Lewis.  Carried 
unanimously.  The meeting was adjourned at 8:50 p.m. 
