 
 
 
 
 
 
 
American Disability Act (ADA) accommodations are available with a 72-hour notice.  An interpreter for the hearing 
impaired will be provided upon request with a minimum notice of two weeks.  Please contact the Clerk’s office at 
253-798-2663 for special accommodations.  Meeting room is wheelchair accessible. 
Executive Board Meeting 
1:30pm 
Tacoma Mall Plaza, 2nd Floor Conference Room 
2702 S. 42nd St., Tacoma WA 98409 
 
Executive Board Members 
Chair - Susan Dreier, Pierce Transit Chief Executive Officer 
Vice Chair – Gary Robinson, Pierce County Finance Director 
Daryl Eidinger, Pierce Transit Commissioner 
Doug Richardson, Pierce County Council 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Meeting Date:  
June 10, 2020 
Meeting Time:  
1:30pm 
Meeting Location: 
Tacoma Mall Plaza, 2nd Floor Conference Room, 2702 S. 42nd St., Tacoma 
 
 
*DRAFT* Agenda 
I. 
Call to Order 
II. 
Roll Call 
III. 
Approval of the Agenda 
IV. 
Approval of the Minutes 
a. --- Meeting 
V. 
Public Comment 
VI. 
Old Business  
VII. 
New Business 
VIII. 
Executive Director Briefing 
IX. 
Single County-Wide Communications System Briefing  
X. 
Board Final Comments 
XI. 
Adjournment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rules for Public Comment  
 
 
1. The Public Comment period is reserved for public testimony on items on the 
agenda.  Comments on items not on the agenda may be allowed by the Chair, if 
time allows. 
 
2. Comments will be limited to three minutes, unless otherwise announced by the 
Chair.  In the event of a significant number of public comments, the Chair 
reserves the right to limit all persons’ comments to an equal period of less than 
three minutes. 
 
3. Speakers may address the Board once during the Public Comment period. 
 
4. Public comment sign-up forms will be made available. 
 
5. The Chair will begin the Public Comment period by calling names of those who 
have signed up. Those wishing to speak who did not place their name on the 
sign-up form may approach the podium following those who have signed in. 
 
6. Those wishing to speak should identify themselves and the topic(s) on the 
agenda they will address for the public record.  
 
7. All remarks shall be addressed to the Board as a whole and not to individuals, 
staff or the public. 
 
8. The Public Comment period may not be used to promote or oppose any 
candidate for public office or any ballot measure. 
 
9. The Public Comment period may not be used for advertising.  
 
10. All speakers shall be courteous in their language and demeanor.   
 
11. Speakers who disrupt the orderly conduct of any Board meeting or fail to comply 
with the rules governing public participation in Board meetings may forfeit their 
right to address the Board and may be removed from the meeting at the 
discretion of the Chair. 
 
 
 
