 
Planning Commission Agenda – June 9, 2020 
Page 1 of 7 
 
City of El Paso de Robles 
“The Pass of the Oaks” 
PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA 
Teleconference Only  
June 9, 2020 
6:30 P.M. 
 
Please note that due to the COVID-19 Emergency and related public health officer orders, 
Planning Commission meetings will be held by Teleconference Only until further notice.  
In compliance with the State and County Shelter at Home Orders, and as allowed by the 
Governor’s Executive Order N-29-20, which allows for a deviation of teleconference rules 
required by the Ralph M. Brown Act, Planning Commission (PC) meetings will be held by 
teleconference only. 
 
Rather than attending in person, project applicants and members of the public must call (805) 
865-7276  to participate via phone (the phone line will open just prior to the start of the meeting 
at 6:30 PM) or written public comments can be submitted via email to planning@prcity.com 
prior to 12:00 noon on the day of the PC meeting and will be posted as an addendum to the 
Agenda online. If submitting written comments in advance of the meeting, please note the 
agenda item.   
A video stream of PC meetings presentations will be live-streamed and available to play later 
on YouTube by accessing the following link: www.prcity.com/youtube  
 
 
PLANNING COMMISSION 
Roberta Jorgensen 
Chairperson 
Ty Christensen 
Leo Castillo 
Commissioner 
Commissioner 
Field Gibson 
Mark Koegler  
Commissioner 
Chairperson Pro-Tem 
Sheree Davis 
Joel Neel 
Commissioner 
Commissioner 
 
 
 
Planning Commission Agenda – June 9, 2020 
Page 2 of 7 
CITY STAFF 
Warren Frace  
Darren Nash 
Community Development Director  
City Planner 
Darcy Delgado 
David Athey, P.E. 
Associate Planner 
City Engineer 
Katie Banister 
Lori Wilson 
Assistant Planner 
Assistant Planner 
LEGAL COUNSEL 
Kimberly Hood 
Interim City Attorney 
 
A. 
Call to Order 
B. 
Pledge of Allegiance 
C. 
Roll Call 
D. 
Staff Introductions 
E. 
General Public Comments Regarding Matters not on the Agenda 
F. 
Agenda Items Proposed to be Tabled or Re-Scheduled  
 
All items on the Planning Commission Agenda are scheduled for action unless explicitly otherwise stated.  Planning Commission Action on 
General Plan Amendments, Rezones, Street and Public Easement Abandonments, Street Name Changes, Code Amendments and any 
legislative related action is a recommendation to the City Council; the City Council will hold a separate public hearing prior to taking final 
action.  All Other Planning Commission action is final unless an appeal application, including the required fee, is filed with the Community 
Development Department within 15 calendar days of the date of the action.  Any member of the public or the City Council may file an appeal.  
Please see last page of agenda for how to file an appeal. 
 
G. 
PUBLIC HEARINGS  
1. Planned Development 20-05, Pasolivo Commercial / Light Industrial Building 
2346 Golden Hill Road / APN: 025-403-011 
Applicant – Brian Dirk 
Request to construct a 27,129 square foot, new commercial/light industrial building.  
 
Options: 
1. Adopt Resolution A, approving Planned Development 20-05, allowing the 
construction of a 27,129 square foot commercial/light industrial building, subject to 
standard conditions of approval. 
2. Amend the above-listed action. 
3. Refer back to staff/DRC for additional analysis. 
 
Planning Commission Agenda – June 9, 2020 
Page 3 of 7 
4. Make findings to deny the application. 
 
H. 
DISCUSSION ITEMS  
I. 
CONSENT CALENDAR 
2. Development Review Committee Minutes (for approval)  
 
May 21, 2020 
June 1, 2020 
3. Planning Commission Minutes (for approval) 
 
May 26, 2020 
 
J. 
OTHER REPORTS 
4. Other Committee Reports: 
a. Housing Constraints Advisory Committee / Housing Element Update Process: 
b. Specific Plan Ad Hoc Committee: 
 
K. 
PLANNING COMMISSIONERS’ COMMENTS 
L. 
STAFF COMMENTS 
M. 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
 
 
Any writing or document pertaining to an open session item on this agenda which is distributed to a majority of the Planning Commission 
after the posting of this agenda will be available for public inspection at the time the subject writing or document is distributed.  The writing 
or document will be available for public review in the Community Development Department, 1000 Spring Street, Paso Robles, CA, during 
normal business hours, and may be posted on the City’s web site at http://www.prcity.com/304/Planning-Commission .  
All persons desiring to speak on an agenda item are asked to fill out Speaker Information Cards and place them at the Staff Table prior 
to public discussion of that item.  Each individual speaker will be limited to a presentation total of three (3) minutes per item. 
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT   Any individual, who because of a disability needs special assistance to attend or participate in 
this meeting, may request assistance by contacting the City Clerk’s Office (805) 237-3960.  Whenever possible, requests should be made 
four (4) working days in advance of the meeting. 
 
Planning Commission Agenda – June 9, 2020 
Page 4 of 7 
PLANNING COMMISSION GUIDELINES FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS 
1. Staff presents overview of staff report. 
2. Commissioners ask any questions they may have for staff on the report. 
3. Commissioners report any “ex parte” conversations they have had prior to the hearing with 
the applicants or members of the public regarding the proposed project. 
4. Public Hearing/Comment Period Opened. 
5. Project applicant, including applicant team members, presents their project. 
6. Commissioners ask any questions they may have for applicant on the project. 
7. Members of the public may speak on the proposed project. 
8. Commissioners ask any questions they may have of speakers regarding their comments on 
the project. 
9. Applicant may clarify proposal or rebut statements made by the public. 
10. Members of the public may add any new comments, but not repeat earlier comments on the 
proposed project in response to applicant’s clarification/rebuttal. 
11. Public Hearing/Comment Period is closed. 
12. The Chair will address questions posed by the public and look to staff to provide responses, 
which will be directed to the Chair.  If commissioners have additional questions of the 
applicant at this point, such questions should be directed through the Chair. 
13. Commissioners ask questions they may have for staff. 
14. Commissioners discuss proposed project. 
15. If commissioners believe additional information is needed, they may reopen the public 
hearing/comment and/or continue it to a future date. 
16. Commissioners vote on proposed project.   
17. If the Commission has the authority to approve a project, applicants and members of the 
public have 15 calendar days to file an appeal to the City Council. If the Commission only has 
authority to make a recommendation to the City Council on a project, the matter will be 
scheduled for a public hearing before the City Council at a future date. 
 
NOTE: 
The Chair reserves the right to reopen the public hearing if he/she believes the 
applicant and/or public may have additional information pertinent to the discussion. 
 
 
 
Planning Commission Agenda – June 9, 2020 
Page 5 of 7 
GROUND RULES FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS AND COMMENTS 
1. Planning Commissioners desire to hear from all persons that wish to speak, regardless of 
their point of view on a proposed project. 
2. All parties: commissioners, staff, applicants, and the public, are to be courteous and civil 
to each other during the meeting. Personal attacks and rude remarks will not be tolerated. 
3. Conversations in the audience during public hearings, comment periods, and discussion 
are disruptive and are not welcome. 
4. Cell phones and electronic devices are to be put in silent mode or turned off.  
5. All testimony from applicants and the public is to be given, one person at a time, from 
the lectern. Meetings are recorded, and the microphone on the lectern is necessary for 
recordation of comments. No comments, other than from the lectern, will be made or 
accepted. 
6. Applicants and members of the public are to address their questions and comments to 
the Chair of the Planning Commission and not to staff or other members of the 
audience. 
7. Members of the public wishing to speak need to state their name and address before 
making comments. They are encouraged to fill out a speaker card so that their names may 
be accurately recorded in the minutes of the meeting. 
8. Where it appears that several people may want to comment on a project, the Chair of the 
Planning Commission may set a time limit, such as 3 minutes, for each public comment. 
9. Where it appears that several people may want to comment on a project, members of the 
public may be asked not to repeat comments provided by others. They may, however, 
state that they agree with certain prior comments. 
10. Members of the public are not to ask other members of the public for a show of support 
for their position. They may, however, ask the Planning Commission Chair if they would 
accept a show of hands for support. 
11. In general, applause from the audience for a position is not acceptable. At the close of the 
agenda item, following a vote of the commission on the project, members of the public 
may render a polite applause. 
 
 
 
Planning Commission Agenda – June 9, 2020 
Page 6 of 7 
PLANNING RELATED APPEAL PROCESS 
Decisions or determinations by the City’s staff, Development Review Committee (DRC) or 
Planning Commission can be appealed by any interested person (applicant, neighbor, public 
official, or other interested party). The appeal process is described by Chapter 21.23.A of the 
City’s Municipal Code, and is summarized as follows: 
a. An appeal of a staff determination or interpretation will be heard by the Planning 
Commission. There is no charge to the appealing party. 
b. The DRC is a subcommittee of the Planning Commission. Their role is to review design 
details as outlined in Chapter 21.23 B of the Municipal Code. Any decision, determination or 
recommendation of the DRC may be appealed to the full Planning Commission. There is no 
charge to the appealing party.  In the absence of an appeal to the City Council, the Planning 
Commission is the final authority on Lot Line Adjustments, Parcel and Subdivision Maps, 
Conditional Use Permits, Planned Developments, design details and Zoning Code 
interpretations. Decisions and determinations by the Planning Commission are appeal able to 
the City Council. Appeals to the City Council require a $200 fee deposit to be applied toward 
actual City costs to prepare the appeal (staff time to prepare a report that adequately responds 
to the appeal, report printing, and required public notices), as adopted by City Council 
Resolution No. 06-128. Appellants are hereby notified that the actual cost of an appeal may 
exceed the $200 deposit and that they will be billed for any additional amounts necessary to 
cover actual City costs. 
When must an appeal be filed? 
An appeal must be filed within fifteen (15) calendar days of the decision. Upon receipt of an 
appeal, the matter will be scheduled for consideration before the appeal body as soon as feasible. 
Appeal applications can be obtained from the City’s website at www.prcity.com, anyone in the 
Community Development Department or by calling (805) 237-3970. 
What is the effect of filing an appeal? 
If an appeal is filed, the body considering the appeal will consider the request as if it were a new 
application. Opportunities will be provided for all interested parties to speak and/or provide 
evidence to support approval or denial of the appeal. 
There is no penalty for filing an appeal. The City cannot and will not penalize anyone for filing an 
appeal. Each application for a land use or other entitlement is handled on a “first-come-first- 
served” basis. (The City keeps a “log” of applications filed, and any of the public is welcome to 
confirm the order of processing for each application.) 
How Can I Get More Information on Appeals? 
Please check the City’s website at www.prcity.com, call the Community Development 
Department at (805) 237-3970, or stop by City Hall at 1000 Spring Street, Paso Robles, CA 
93446. 
 
 
 
Planning Commission Agenda – June 9, 2020 
Page 7 of 7 
THE PASO ROBLES PLANNING ACRONYM GLOSSARY 
ADT: 
Average daily trips made by vehicles or persons in a 24-hour period 
ALUP: 
Airport Land Use Plan 
APCD: 
Air Pollution Control District 
BMP: 
Best Management Practice, Bike Master Plan 
CAP: 
Climate Action Plan 
CC&Rs: 
Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions (private agreements among property 
owners; the City has no authority to enforce these) 
CDBG: 
Community Development Block Grant (a federal grant program designed to benefit 
low and moderate income persons) 
CEQA: 
California Environmental Quality Act 
CFD: 
Community Facilities District  
SLOCOG: San Luis Obispo Council of Governments 
CUP: 
Conditional Use Permit 
DRC: 
Development Review Committee (a subcommittee of the Planning Commission) 
EIR: 
Environmental Impact Report  
Ex Parte: 
Communication between Planning Commissioners and applicants outside of a 
public meeting 
FEMA:  
Federal Emergency Management Agency 
GHG: 
Greenhouse gas 
Greenfield: A large area, usually at the edge of the City, in which properties are either mostly 
vacant or in agricultural use, but is planned for urban or suburban development 
HOME: 
Home Investment Partnership Act (a federal program to assist housing for low and 
moderate income households) 
HCP: 
Habitat Conservation Plan 
HCD: 
State Department of Housing & Community Development 
HUD: 
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 
LAFCO: 
Local Agency Formation Commission 
LID: 
Low Impact Development (measures to reduce rainwater runoff impacts) 
LLA: 
Landscaping and Lighting District 
LOS: 
Level of Service (a measurement of traffic efficiency used by CalTrans) 
MOU: 
Memorandum of Understanding 
MND: 
Mitigated Negative Declaration 
NEG DEC: Negative Declaration (a CEQA statement that a project will not have a significant 
effect on the environment) 
NEPA: 
National Environmental Policy Act 
PD: 
Planned Development/development plan 
PUD: 
Planned Unit Development (a type of condominium development in which the land 
beneath a residential unit is owned in fee, as opposed to air space ownership) 
SOI: 
Sphere of Influence 
TOT: 
Transient Occupancy Tax 
Variance: 
A form of relief from zoning development regulations based on physical constraints 
of a property that prevents development of the same type of buildings allowed on 
other properties within the same zone and in the same neighborhood 
VMT: 
Vehicle Miles Traveled 
