  
Falmouth Conservation Commission
59 Town Hall Square, Falmouth, Massachusetts 02540
(508) 495-7445
The FALMOUTH CONSERVATION COMMISSION
Wednesday, June 10, 2020, 7:00 p.m.
In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law,
G. L. c. 30A, § 20, relating to the 2020 novel Coronavirus outbreak emergency, the June 10, 2020 
public meeting of the Falmouth Conservation Commission shall be physically closed to the 
public to avoid group congregation. 
Alternative public access to this meeting shall be provided in the following manner:
1. The meeting will be televised via Falmouth Community Television.
2. Real-time public comment can be addressed to the Conservation Commission utilizing the 
Zoom virtual meeting software for remote access.  This application will allow users to view 
the meeting and send a comment or question to the Chair via the Chat function. Submitted 
text comments will be read into the record at the appropriate points in the meeting.
a.
Zoom Login instructions:
i. Instructions and the meeting link for this specific meeting can be found at the
following web address: http://www.falmouthmass.us/1092/Conservation-
Commission
ii. Please plan on 10-15 minutes of preparation time to log in though it may be 
less if you have previously used Zoom on the device you will use to access 
this meeting.
3. Additionally public comments may be sent in advance of the meeting to 
concom@falmouthma.gov at least 5 hours prior to the beginning of the meeting.  
Documents and audio or video files may also be submitted via email. Submitted email 
comments and documents will be made a part of the meeting record and may be read into 
the record, summarized or displayed during the meeting at the discretion of the chair.
4. Applicants, their representatives and individuals with enforcement matters before the 
Conservation Commission may appear remotely and are not required to be physically 
present.  Applicants, their representatives and individuals with enforcement matters before 
the Conservation Commission may contact the Conservation Department to arrange an 
alternative means of real time participation if unable to use the Zoom virtual meeting 
software.  Documentary exhibits and/or visual presentations should be submitted in advance
of the meeting to concom@falmouthma.gov  so they may be displayed for remote public 
access viewing.  
A G E N D A
VOTE MINUTES
June 3, 2020
REQUESTS FOR A CONTINUANCE UNDER A NOTICE OF INTENT
Les Chernauskas, 69 Paola Drive, East Falmouth, MA- For permission to raze an existing single 
family dwelling and to construct a new single family dwelling; to upgrade to a Title V septic 
system; to install drywells, a retaining wall, a rinse station, a wall and steps, and an elevated a/c 
unit.
REQUESTS FOR DETERMINATION OF APPLICABILITY
John Corbett, 139 Allen Avenue, Falmouth, MA – For permission to construct and maintain an in-
ground pool, pool equipment, fencing with gates, a retaining wall, stone pavers, patios, stone stoops
and a free-standing fenced rinse station within the flood zone 
Gordon Thomson, 18 Millfield Street, Woods Hole, Falmouth, MA – For permission to reconstruct 
existing decks within the existing approved footprint
John and Patricia Perry, 55 Madeline Road, East Falmouth, MA – For permission to repair a failed 
septic system
CONTINUED REQUEST FOR DETERMINATION OF APPLICABILITY
Richard & Patricia Torre, 57 Cape Codder Road, West Falmouth, MA- For after the fact permission
to install a water service to the dwelling and rebuild a section of stone wall.
CONTINUED HEARINGS UNDER A NOTICE OF INTENT
Anastasios Parafestas, Trustee, 160 Penzance Road, Woods Hole, Falmouth, MA- For permission 
to install a 12’ x  20’ pool, stone pool terrace, stone retaining walls, stone steps, pool utilities, 
lighting, fencing, drainage, and all associated clearing, excavation, grading, irrigations, landscaping,
and mitigation plantings.
Les Chernauskas, 69 Paola Drive, East Falmouth, MA- For permission to raze an existing single 
family dwelling and to construct a new single family dwelling; to upgrade to a Title V septic 
system; to install drywells, a retaining wall, a rinse station, a wall and steps, and an elevated a/c 
unit.
Lucie Greer, 77 Bar Neck Road, Woods Hole, Falmouth, MA – For permission to reconstruct an 
existing deck, replace an existing post and rail fence, and to conduct invasive species management 
on a coastal dune.
Arthur and Pamela Chaves, 400 Edgewater Drive East, East Falmouth, MA – For permission to 
remove an existing pool, patio area, and surrounding fence; and to construct a new 26’ x 33’ timber 
deck.
CONTINUED REQUEST TO AMEND THE EXISTING ORDER OF CONDITIONS
College Light Opera Company, Inc., 54 Chapoquoit Road, West Falmouth, MA – For permission to
amend DEP #25-4467 to widen and improve the existing gravel driveway for fire and emergency 
vehicle access, to relocate the existing porch for student housing cottage #2, and to additionally 
clear the understory as well as install restoration plantings and trees.
REQUESTS TO EXTEND THE EXISTING ORDER OF CONDITIONS
Seascape Association, Inc., 0 Waterside Drive (“A” Beach), North Falmouth, MA- (DEP# 25-
4279)- Request a three-year extension.
Roderic & Marylyn Komar, 164 Acapesket Rd, East Falmouth, MA – (DEP# 25-4256)- Request a 
three-year extension.
VOTE ORDER OF CONDITIONS

Rosemarie E. Murphy, 23 Green Pond Road, East Falmouth, MA
Board will consider any matters not reasonably anticipated by the Chair.
