 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TOWN OF CARRBORO 
STORMWATER ADVISORY COMMISSION 
 
AGENDA 
 
June 11th, 2020; 6:30 pm 
Remote Meeting 
Time 
Item 
Presenter 
6:30 pm 
Administrative Matters: Call to order, approval of May 
minutes; appointment to Comprehensive Plan Task Force 
Chair, all 
6:45 pm 
Public comment (if any) 
Chair, all 
6:50 pm 
Staff update 
Staff, all 
7:00 pm 
Presentation, discussion on stream biological potential* 
Paul, staff, all 
7:55 pm 
Announcements and adjourn 
 
Chair 
* Relevant material available at: http://www.townofcarrboro.org/702/Benthic-Monitoring, 
http://www.townofcarrboro.org/280/Bolin-Creek-Watershed-Restoration 
 
Citizens (other than Commission members) should email stormwater@townofcarrboro.org  to 
receive an invitation to view the meeting. If you wish to make public comment, at the time of public 
comment, the speakers will be allowed to remotely enter the meeting one-by-one to comment. Please 
send any written statement or materials to the same email provided above. Requests to remotely 
attend the meeting shall be made within 24 hours of the meeting start time. The requester should also 
specify if they wish to make any comments in the email. All written statement and materials will be 
forwarded to the Commission members. 
 
TOWN OF CARRBORO 
 STORMWATER ADVISORY COMMISSION – SUMMARY 
 
 
 
Remote Meeting on April 9, 2020, 6:30 pm (Zoom) 
 
Administrative Matters 
The SWAC approved the April minutes (unanimous vote). Staff will follow up with the SWAC regarding an 
appointment to a new task force to work on development of a comprehensive plan. 
 
Staff Update 
Staff provided an update on: the status of construction for the Public Works stream restoration; FEMA funded 
home elevations on Lorraine Street; the culmination of work with the Center for Neighborhood Technology; a 
planned riparian buffer urban forestry grant application for Anderson Park; a scheduled audit of the Town’s 
NPDES stormwater permit; and posting of a new stormwater staff position.   
 
Outreach 
Staff provided an update on recent and planned outreach activities, including sharing some of the graphics and 
outreach products of the recently completed UNC internship and a preliminary draft of a “Homeowner’s 
Watershed Manual”.  The SWAC provided feedback, including the need for translating the materials for non-
English speaking residents (especially for targeted audiences) and a few ideas for clarifying content and user 
friendly access.  
 
Adjourn 
The meeting was adjourned at 7:49 pm.   
Commission Members 
Applicants 
Staff 
John Cox (vice-chair) 
Jeanette O’Connor  (chair) 
Margot Lester 
Randy Dodd 
Robert Dickson  
Michael Paul (absent) 
 
Heather Holley 
Jacquelyn Gist (Council Liaison) 
Lauren Joca 
 
 
