BOTHELL CITY COUNCIL 
***VIRTUAL MEETING*** 
AGENDA 
June 9, 2020 
 6:00 PM 
BOTHELL CITY HALL 
18415 101st AVE NE 
BOTHELL, WA 98011 
Public Notice: Pursuant to Governor Inslee’s Stay Home, Stay Healthy Proclamation 20-25 and in effort to 
curtail the spread of the COVID-19 virus, this City Council meeting will be conducted remotely. We encourage 
members of the public to attend and participate in the meeting remotely, as described in more detail below. 
To attend the meeting: 
•
Watch the meeting LIVE online
•
Watch the meeting live on BCTV Cable Access Channels 21/26 (must have Frontier/Comcast Cable)
•
Listen to the meeting live by phone: +1-510-338-9438 USA Toll / Access code: 126 262 7549
•
Council meetings are also recorded and available the next day on the City of Bothell YouTube
Channel.
To provide written or verbal comments: 
•
Sign-up HERE to give your comment (submissions must be received by 3PM, day of meeting).
MEMBERS OF THE CITY COUNCIL 
Mayor Liam Olsen 
Deputy Mayor Jeanne Zornes 
Councilmember Tom Agnew 
Councilmember Davina Duerr 
Councilmember Rosemary McAuliffe 
Councilmember James McNeal 
Councilmember Mason Thompson 
REGULAR SESSION 
Call to Order, Roll Call and Pledge of Allegiance 
1. Meeting Agenda Approval
During this item, the City Council may identify agenda items to be continued, withdrawn, or added.
2. Presentations, Reports, & Briefings
A.
Public Engagement Opportunities
-
None at this time.
B.
Proclamations
-
None at this time.
C.
Special Presentations
-
King County Solid Waste Rate Proposal – Sustainability Coordinator Emily Warnock &
King County Representatives Pat McLaughlin and John Walsh
D. Staff Briefings
-
None at this time.
E.
City Manager Reports
-
Update of City’s COVID-19 Response
-
Civil Protests Update
F.
Council Committee Reports
3. Visitor Comment
If you wish to comment (either in writing or verbally) please submit a form HERE prior to 3PM (day of 
meeting). Verbal comments will be allowed 3 minutes to speak via phone. All comments will be made part of 
the record. 
4.
Consent Agenda
All items under this section will be passed with a single motion and vote. These items are of a routine
nature. Prior to approval, City Council may request items be withdrawn from the consent agenda for
separate discussion. Approval of the consent agenda authorizes the City Manager to implement each
item in accordance with the staff recommendation.
-
None at this time.
5. Public Hearings
-
None at this time.
6. Ordinances & Resolutions
A.
AB # 20-072 - Consideration of an Interim Ordinance Allowing Temporary Reduced Parking for
Outdoor Dining
Recommended Action: Provide direction to staff on whether to charge a fee and approve the
proposed Interim Ordinance.
7. Contracts and Agreements
-
None at this time.
8. Other Items
A.
AB # 20-073 -Consideration of the Redeployment of Lime Scooters in Bothell
Recommended Action: Provide Staff with direction regarding the redeployment of electric
scooters in the City of Bothell.
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 2 of 32
Pgs. 5-6
Pgs. 7-18
Pgs. 19-22
9.
Study Session/Update/Discussion Items
A.
AB # 20-074 – Study Session on the Status of the Canyon Park Subarea Plan Update
Recommended Action: No action is requested this evening.
10. Council Conversations
During this item, Council members have the opportunity to informally discuss topics of city interest.
11. Executive Session/Closed Session
-
None at this time
Pursuant to the Washington Open Public Meetings Act, Title 42, Chapter 30, Revised Code of 
Washington, Sec. 42.30.110 (1), Executive Sessions or Closed Sessions may be held, under certain 
exceptions, at any time during the meeting that a need arises for the City Council to seek advice from 
the City Attorney as to the posted subject matter of this City Council meeting. 
12. Adjourn
CERTIFICATE 
I hereby certify that the above agenda was posted on 6/4/2020 by 6:00 P.M., on the official website and 
bulletin board at Bothell City Hall, 18415 101st Avenue NE, Bothell, WA, 98011, in accordance with RCW 
42.30.077, at least 24 hours in advance of the published start time of the meeting. 
Laura Hathaway, City Clerk 
SPECIAL ACCOMODATIONS: The City of Bothell strives to provide accessible meetings for people with 
disabilities. If special accommodations are required, please contact the ADA Coordinator at (425) 806- 
6151 at least one day prior to the meeting. 
Copies of agenda bills and attachments listed in this agenda may be obtained from the City Clerk's Office 
the Friday before the 
meeting. 
Bothell City Council meetings are aired live on Bothell Community Television (BCTV) Channel 21/26 
(Comcast/Frontier) (available to Comcast and Frontier Cable customers within Bothell City limits). 
Meetings are generally replayed according to the following schedule (subject to change): Wednesday 
following the meeting at 10 a.m.; Friday, Saturday and Sunday following the meeting at 10 a.m. and 7 
p.m. City Council and Planning Commission meetings and the BCTV schedule are viewable online at
www.bothellwa.gov
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 3 of 32
Pgs. 23-32
 
 
 
 
 
 
(This page intentionally left blank) 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 4 of 32
 
 
 
 
 
May 12, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fast Facts: Developing the 2021-22 Rate Proposal 
King County’s Solid Waste Division is in the final stages of preparing a rate proposal for transmittal to 
the King County Executive. As we continue briefing our city partners on the substance of the proposal, 
there are key considerations to keep in mind: 
 
County reduces costs by $37 million, 2019 budget estimated to hold flat through 2022. 
 The County has identified $37 million of cost reductions, representing approximately 10% of 
what would have been its biennial budget.  Actions include fixed and variable cost reductions 
such as closing the landfill on the weekends, deferring the replacement of capital equipment, 
reduced labor costs, use of bond financing, and reductions in professional services and supplies. 
 The identified cost reductions enable no increase in operational spending over the current 
2019/20 biennial budget.  These reductions fully offset real inflectional expenses and costs 
associated with necessary new investments that will enable the region to attain their equity 
and environmental goals. 
 
Improved recycling and a slower economy is reducing waste tonnage resulting in higher per ton 
costs. 
 The successful diversion of construction and demolition debris from the waste stream and into 
reuse markets has advanced our recycling progress but reduced tonnage by 7%. 
 The COVID-19 economic impacts are forecasted to further reduce waste tonnage resulting in 
fewer units (tons) from which to recover a reduced operating budget. 
 Our current financial model is almost entirely dependent on waste tonnage to generate 
revenue.  Despite $37 million in identified budget reductions resulting in no net increase to the 
operating budget, the dramatically lower tonnage will require a higher per ton fee to cover the 
lower expenses. 
 
Low income discount programs (Cleanup LIFT) provides equitable service access for some of the most 
vulnerable residents across the County. 
 Although the proposed rate increase would have a nominal impact to curbside customers 
(about $0.64/month) we recognize that our most financially vulnerable households spend a 
greater proportion of their income on essential services such as waste disposal.  
 The rate proposal includes making the Cleanup-LIFT program permanent, providing a discount 
of half of the minimum fee for self-haul customers who show an ORCA LIFT, EBT, or Medicaid 
card at our transfer stations. A number of city partners also offer low-income rate discounts to 
curbside customers. 
 Over 6,400 low income customers have benefited from the County’s Cleanup LIFT program 
since its inception in January 2019.  Participation continues to grow. 
 
(Continued on next page) 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 5 of 32
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
May
•SWD finalizes 
proposal
June
•SWD transmits 
proposal to 
County 
Executive
July
•County 
Executive 
transmits 
proposal to 
County Council
September
•Targeted 
adoption of 
proposal by 
County Council
October
•SWD 
Communication 
to cities and 
haulers on 
approved rate.
Regional dialog will inform a comprehensive approach to decoupling dependency on waste to fund 
services - some action should be taken now to recover cost of service and fund critical actions. 
 The County is actively seeking regional leaders to be part of a workgroup that will study and 
make recommendations regarding a rate restructure for the future.  This work will inform ways 
to decouple the regions dependency on garbage to fully fund the system.  This is particularly 
important since 70% of what is landfilled could be recycled.   
 In the meantime, this rate proposal provides an opportunity to increase transparency of costs 
for the actual services provided.  In 2019, “free recycling” cost the County $1 million.  The 
proposed transaction fees accomplish three things; 
1. Provides recovery for the actual cost of service for recycling at transfer stations. 
2. Is primarily paid by the self-haul customers who are using these recycling services 
3. Provides funding for the additional diversion of resources otherwise destined to be 
landfilled.  Instead these materials will be put into the economy creating jobs and 
environmental benefits. 
 
An estimated 1,400 private sector jobs will be created thru implementation of the 2019 
Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Plan while addressing important equity and 
environmental issues. 
 The Northeast County and South County projects target equity and service gaps that are long 
overdue for solutions. From a financial standpoint, project delays would not result in visible 
savings to a typical single-family household and in fact could be detrimental to such in the 
future. The inflationary costs alone could be significant in time.  
 Moving forward with these important projects not only address equity and service gaps, but 
also provide a boost to our local economy.  An estimated 1,400 jobs will be created by these 
capital investments during a projected economic downturn. 
 
Rate Development Schedule 
 
 
 
 
The County is committed to regional transparency and continued engagement 
 Though the Stay-at-Home orders have restricted in-person meetings, King County is still 
committed to public engagement and ongoing meetings with stakeholders and the public to 
discuss the proposed rate.  Monthly advisory committee meetings continue on-line.  
 
Questions or requests for briefings can be directed to the Solid Waste Division Intergovernmental 
Relations Administrator, Dorian Waller, at 206-263-1368 or dwaller@kingcounty.gov.  
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 6 of 32
City Council 
Agenda Bill 
AB # 20-072 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TO: 
 
Mayor Olsen and Members of the Bothell City Council 
FROM: 
 
Michael Kattermann, Community Development Director 
Darcey Eilers, Deputy City Attorney 
 
DATE: 
 
June 9, 2020 
SUBJECT: 
 
Consideration of an Interim Ordinance to allow temporary use of private 
property/parking areas for outdoor dining 
 
 
 
  
POLICY 
CONSIDERATION: 
The Council is being asked to consider two policy issues and provide direction to 
staff: 
1) whether to temporarily waive certain requirements of the Bothell Municipal 
Code (BMC) to allow private property, particularly parking areas, to be used 
for outdoor dining; and 
2) if those requirements are waived, whether to charge or waive the fee that 
would be associated with the permit. 
 
The purpose of this action would be to allow eating and drinking establishments 
throughout Bothell to expand their capacity for serving dine-in customers 
temporarily during phases 2 and 3 of Governor Inslee’s plan for reopening 
businesses in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.  If Council decides to pursue this 
policy, an interim ordinance (Attachment 1) has been prepared for consideration 
and action. 
 
  
HISTORY: 
DATE ACTION 
MARCH 5, 2020 Mayor declared state of emergency due to COVID-19 Virus 
outbreak 
MARCH 16, 2020 City Manager directed as many city staff as possible to work 
remotely  
MARCH 23, 2020 Governor issued stay-at-home order, causing some 
development projects to stop operations 
MAY 4, 2020 Governor issued four phased approach for reopening 
businesses 
 
  
DISCUSSION: Most businesses have been severely economically impacted by the pandemic and 
some may not reopen.  Phase 2 of the reopening approach will allow eating and 
drinking establishments to offer table service again.  In order to protect the health 
of the public and reduce the risk of exposure to the virus, there will be limitations 
on table size (maximum 5 people), spacing and serving capacity (maximum 50% of 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 7 of 32
City Council 
Agenda Bill 
AB # 20-072 
 
pre-pandemic capacity).  Phase 3 increases table size to 10 and serving capacity to 
75%.  While reopening is a positive step for these businesses and the community, 
the capacity limitations will have an economic impact on businesses and the 
community. 
 
One way to allow these businesses to expand their serving capacity is to allow the 
temporary use of private property, primarily required parking areas, for outdoor 
dining service.  The reduced capacity should have the effect of reducing the parking 
needed through phases 2 and 3.  These temporary provisions are well timed for the 
summer months, assuming phases 2 and 3 will cover at least some portions of June 
of July.  When phase 4 is in effect, the businesses will be able to return to pre-
pandemic capacity and the temporary provisions will no longer be needed. 
 
In order to ensure that life, safety and access requirements would be met by the 
temporary dining areas, a permit and inspection would be required.  The proposed 
interim ordinance directs staff to create a permit process that is basic and brief.  Staff 
estimates that the cost of processing the permit would be the equivalent of one hour 
of an inspector’s time, or $166.00.  Additionally, if the business wants to install a 
canopy over the outdoor seating area, there is an existing permit and fee of $287.  
Staff would propose combining the two permits and fees for these temporary uses.  
Council could also decide to waive either or both permit fees.  Staff recommends 
retaining the additional hourly fee for inspections outside of normal city business 
hours.  Although the fee is relatively inexpensive, there is no way to estimate how 
many businesses may take advantage of these temporary waivers.  Staff is seeking 
Council direction on whether to charge the permit fees if the interim ordinance is 
adopted. 
 
Staff is developing a permit with minimal submittal requirements and a consolidated 
review/inspection process referred to as “subject to field inspection” (STFI).  
Submittal requirements will include a diagram indicating location and type of 
delineation of the temporary dining area, including canopy if applicable; number of 
parking spaces temporarily displaced; guidance for applicants to determine 
restricted occupant loads under the International Building Code; adequate and 
accessible circulation to and within the dining area; and accessible routes to 
restrooms.  Staff believes this information is necessary to maintain life, safety and 
accessibility standards for customers and the community.  This does not affect any 
requirements of other agencies that regulate eating and drinking establishments. 
 
This interim ordinance is intended to be temporary until public health and economic 
conditions improve, and the provisions of the ordinance are necessary to avoid an 
imminent threat to public health or safety. As King and Snohomish County are 
expected to move to Phase II, this Ordinance is exempt from the requirements of a 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 8 of 32
City Council 
Agenda Bill 
AB # 20-072 
 
threshold determination under the State Environmental Policy Act pursuant to WAC 
197-11-880 and BMC 14.02.080.  
 
Under the provisions of state law (RCW 36.70A.390), cities may enact interim 
ordinances for a period of six months.  The City has 60 days from the adoption of the 
interim ordinance to conduct a public hearing.  The expectation is that phase 4 will 
occur prior to the expiration of the interim ordinance.  Council can repeal the 
ordinance at any time with a motion and affirmative vote. 
 
  
FISCAL 
IMPACTS: 
Collecting permit fees could cover city processing and permitting costs during the 
short duration of the interim ordinance.  Waiving either or both permit fees would 
likely have limited impacts on city costs and may encourage more businesses to 
expand their capacity and increase sales tax revenues.  The value of the foregone 
fees, if this item is approved, is difficult to determine in advance of applications 
being received, but is not expected to have a significant impact on the General Fund 
budget.  Staff does not think lost revenues would qualify under the provisions of the 
CARES Act.  However, staff will explore potential reimbursement under any future 
state or federal programs. 
  
ATTACHMENTS: 
Att-1. 
Proposed Interim Ordinance 
 
 
 
RECOMMENDED  
ACTION: 
Provide direction to staff on whether to charge a fee and approve the proposed 
Interim Ordinance (Attachment 1). 
  
  
 
 
 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 9 of 32
 
 
 
 
 
 
(This page intentionally left blank) 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 10 of 32
Page 1 of 7 
ORDINANCE NO. 
(2020) 
AN INTERIM ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BOTHELL, WASHINGTON, 
IN RESPONSE TO THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC TEMPORARILY 
AUTHORIZING EXISTING FOOD AND BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS 
TO USE PRIVATE PARKING AREAS FOR OUTDOOR DINING; 
ESTABLISHING AN EXPIRATION DATE CONSISTENT WITH RCW 
36.70A.390; AND FIXING AN EFFECTIVE DATE. 
WHEREAS, a state of emergency has been declared by the federal, state, county, 
and municipal governments in response to the COVID-19 pandemic; and 
WHEREAS, since February 29, 2020, Governor Jay Inslee has issued several 
proclamations, including Emergency Proclamation 20-25 (“Stay Home, Stay Healthy 
order”), placing numerous restrictions on individuals and businesses in response to the 
state-wide threat of the spread of COVID-19 virus; and 
WHEREAS, Governor Inslee has developed a phased reopening approach, known 
as the “Safe Start Washington” phased reopening plan, for resuming recreational, social, 
and business activities; and 
WHEREAS, outdoor activities, including outdoor restaurant seating, have been 
determined to be safer and less likely to lead to the spread of COVID-19 than indoor 
restaurant seating; and 
WHEREAS, during a modified Phase 1 of the “Safe Start” reopening plan, 
restaurants are authorized to resume outdoor on-premise food and beverage service at 
50 percent of existing outdoor capacity, so long as those businesses adopt social 
distancing measures consistent with the phase-specific re-opening plan requirements but 
indoor dining is prohibited; and  
WHEREAS, during Phase 2 of the “Safe Start” reopening plan, restaurants and 
taverns are authorized to resume both indoor and outdoor on-premise consumption of 
food and beverages consistent with the phase-specific reopening plan requirements; and 
WHEREAS, in the industry-specific requirements, Section 5 of the Phase 2 
Restaurant/Tavern Reopening COVID-19 Requirements requires that the restaurants and 
taverns operate at no more than 50% of seating capacity, limiting the size of parties to 
five or less, and seating groups of guests at least 6 feet apart; and  
Att-1
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 11 of 32
 
Page 2 of 7 
WHEREAS, the City Council wishes to encourage business activity consistent with 
the Safe Start requirements and to make restaurants and taverns safer to operate by 
leveraging available private and public space to be used as additional outdoor areas for 
dining activity while maintaining social distancing requirements; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City Council believes that allowing food and beverage 
establishments to expand their business footprint onto privately-owned parking facilities 
where they may not be permitted by city code otherwise will support the Governor's Safe 
Start plan, encourage compliance with social distancing requirements, and promote 
business operation and economic recovery while maintaining the focus on core public 
safety principles; and 
WHEREAS, it is necessary and appropriate during the state of local emergency to 
utilize an interim ordinance, which is intended to be only temporary until public health and 
economic conditions improve, to facilitate and encourage outdoor seating areas to make 
food and beverage establishments safer to operate and to promote needed economic 
and business recovery in the City; and 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the public interest to adopt this interim 
Ordinance. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BOTHELL, 
WASHINGTON, DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS: 
 
Section 1.  AUTHORIZATION TO USE PRIVATE PARKING AREAS FOR 
OUTDOOR DINING. Subject to the provisions of this Ordinance, the City grants 
temporary permission for existing eating and drinking establishments to utilize private 
parking areas for outdoor dining use, provided the private parking area is immediately 
adjacent to the food and beverage establishment.  
A. Such outdoor dining use shall be permitted only if it is authorized to operate 
under the state’s Safe Start Washington phased reopening plan.  
B. An eating and drinking establishment may only operate in a private parking 
area only with a valid permit issued by the City and only while this Ordinance remains in 
effect.  
C. Any person who utilizes private areas for outdoor dining use as authorized 
by this Ordinance shall comply with all terms, conditions, and requirements of this 
Ordinance.  
D. Use of any portion or percentage of private off-street parking areas for 
outdoor dining use shall require the property owner’s approval. Nothing in this Ordinance 
compels a landlord to permit a tenant to expand its business to the exterior.  
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 12 of 32
 
Page 3 of 7 
E. This Ordinance authorizes only temporary use of private areas otherwise 
restricted for parking purposes. Nothing in this Ordinance authorizes permanent 
improvements or interior expansions. Such development must comply with existing permit 
processes. 
Section 2. SECTIONS WAIVED. In order to effectuate the purpose of this 
Ordinance, minimum parking regulations normally applicable to eating and drinking 
establishments are waived to enable such uses to serve patrons in adjoining parking 
spaces. Specifically, for the duration of this Ordinance, the following Bothell Municipal 
Code sections are hereby suspended and waived for the duration of this Ordinance only 
to the extent necessary to effectuate this Ordinance and under the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Ordinance:  
A. BMC 12.16.020(A) – No occupancy permit is required for temporary outdoor 
seating.  
B. BMC 12.16.020(D) – A temporary change of use from parking to seating 
area is authorized for existing food and beverage businesses. 
C. BMC 12.16.030 – No minimum parking spaces or additional bicycle parking 
are required for temporary outdoor seating activity authorized by this Ordinance. 
D. BMC 12.16.120(C)(1) – Waived for temporary walkways within or 
associated with temporary outdoor seating activity authorized by this Ordinance. 
E. The minimum parking requirements applicable in the downtown subarea as 
reflected in BMC 12.64.402 and by cross-references within each district section are 
waived for purposes of authorizing temporary outdoor seating activity consistent with this 
Ordinance. 
F. Any other minimum or maximum parking requirement of the City not 
specifically identified here that conflicts with this Ordinance, as determined by the 
Community Development Director, is hereby waived. 
Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to authorize the waiver of any other City 
code requirements and all such other provisions and law shall remain in full force and 
effect. In particular, any use of private parking areas for outdoor dining use pursuant to 
this Ordinance must comply with all applicable fire, life safety, and ADA requirements. 
 
Section 3. PERMIT PROCESS.  
A. The Community Development Director is directed to create a permitting 
process for this temporary outdoor dining use. Applications will be reviewed by the 
Community Development Department and the Fire Department. 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 13 of 32
 
Page 4 of 7 
B. The permitting process shall be efficient and with a limited review based 
upon a subject-to-field-inspection (STFI) permit.  
C. No permit application fee will be charged. 
D. The purpose of this permit presents special circumstances that warrant a 
different review process than the existing administrative permit requirements, particularly 
because the authorized activity is temporary in nature and because there is an immediate 
need to create this opportunity to expand outdoor dining areas. Therefore, to the extent 
additional administrative provisions are necessary, the Community Development Director 
has discretion to establish those requirements, except that this permit should not include 
any requirements more burdensome than a Type 1 permit under Chapter 11.07 BMC. 
The Community Development Director may but is not required to include public notice 
requirements. 
E. If an applicant desires to include a temporary membrane (e.g., a canopy or 
tent) for the temporary outdoor dining area, the City’s existing temporary membrane 
permit application and review process shall be subsumed into this temporary outdoor 
dining area permit. While this Ordinance remains in effect, the current IFC operational 
permit fee established in the fee resolution for a temporary membrane is waived for 
temporary outdoor dining areas. 
F. Nothing in this Ordinance waives or purports to waive any requirement to 
obtain permits or approvals from other entities, such as the state’s Liquor and Cannabis 
Board or the state or county Health Department, which are the responsibility of the food 
and beverage establishment. 
Section 4. REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS. Temporary outdoor dining 
areas utilizing private parking areas must comply with the following requirements and 
restrictions:  
A. Outdoor seating in private parking areas may be utilized only to support 
additional tables and chairs for food or beverage establishment seating.  
1) New outdoor operations cannot result in a total occupancy greater than 
the originally approved occupancy limit for the food or beverage 
establishment, unless explicitly authorized by the Building Official and 
the Fire Marshal. 
2) All outdoor seating shall be spaced at least 6 feet apart measured from 
back of occupied chair to back of occupied chair; 
B. The converted use must be in conformance with all City building and fire 
requirements for building accessibility and emergency access. 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 14 of 32
 
Page 5 of 7 
1) Fire hydrants and fire lanes must not be blocked, and required fire 
access must be maintained. 
2) Outdoor seating shall not block or otherwise restrict access to 
designated disabled parking spaces. 
3) Outdoor seating shall not block any established exits from any building. 
4) ADA and other access standards and guidance apply. 
C. Other limitations on placement of outdoor dining areas.  
1) Outdoor seating cannot be located within required landscaping, 
stormwater facilities, critical areas, or private streets. 
2) Temporary placement of outdoor seating areas and/or equipment such 
as wash stations and hand sanitizing stations or stations for staff set-up 
and service do not need to meet required setbacks. 
3) The outdoor dining area may expand past the food or beverage 
establishment’s façade with the neighboring business’s permission. 
D. A current City of Bothell business license is a prerequisite to being issued 
a permit as provided for in this Ordinance.  
E. Any other requirements or restrictions deemed necessary by the 
Community Development Department and/or the Fire Marshal. In particular, in order to 
allow the greatest flexibility in implementing the additional outdoor dining areas authorized 
by this Ordinance, the Community Development Director and the Fire Marshal have 
discretion to modify or change these regulations and restrictions to address any changes 
or modifications to the Safe Start phased reopening requirements and restrictions.  
Section 5.  SEVERABILITY.  If any section, sentence, clause, or phrase of this 
Ordinance should be held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity 
or unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity or constitutionality of any other section, 
sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance. 
 
Section 6.  EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance, being an exercise of a power 
specifically delegated to the City legislative body, is not subject to referendum and shall 
take effect five (5) days after passage and publication of an approved summary thereof 
consisting of the title. 
 
Section 7. EXPIRATION. The City Council adopts this interim regulation under the 
authority of RCW 36.70A.390. Therefore, the interim controls adopted herein shall be in 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 15 of 32
 
Page 6 of 7 
effect for a period of six (6) months from the effective date of this Ordinance and shall 
automatically expire after a period of six months, unless extended as provided by statute 
or otherwise superseded by action of Council, whichever occurs first. Because this is an 
interim ordinance only, it shall not be codified. 
 
Section 8.  CORRECTIONS.  The City Clerk and the codifiers of this Ordinance 
are authorized to make necessary corrections to this ordinance including, but not limited 
to, the correction of scrivener’s/clerical errors, references, ordinance numbering, 
section/subsection numbers, and any references thereto. 
 
APPROVED: 
 
 
_____________________________________ 
LIAM OLSEN 
MAYOR 
ATTEST/AUTHENTICATED: 
 
 
 
 
LAURA HATHAWAY 
CITY CLERK 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
 
                 PAUL BYRNE 
CITY ATTORNEY 
 
 
 
FILED WITH THE CITY CLERK:   
 
PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL:   
 
PUBLISHED:   
 
EFFECTIVE DATE:   
 
ORDINANCE NO.:   
(2020) 
 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 16 of 32
 
Page 7 of 7 
SUMMARY OF ORDINANCE NO.   
(2020) 
 
City of Bothell, Washington 
 
 
 
 
On the  
 
 day of  
 
 
, 2020, the City Council of 
the City of Bothell passed Ordinance No.   
__ (2020). A summary of the content of 
said Ordinance, consisting of the title, is provided as follows: 
 
AN INTERIM ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BOTHELL, WASHINGTON, 
IN RESPONSE TO THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC TEMPORARILY 
AUTHORIZING EXISTING FOOD AND BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS 
TO USE PRIVATE PARKING AREAS FOR OUTDOOR DINING; 
ESTABLISHING AN EXPIRATION DATE CONSISTENT WITH RCW 
36.70A.390; AND FIXING AN EFFECTIVE DATE. 
 
The full text of this Ordinance will be mailed upon request. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LAURA HATHAWAY 
 
CITY CLERK 
 
 
 
FILED WITH THE CITY CLERK:   
 
PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL:   
 
PUBLISHED:   
 
EFFECTIVE DATE:   
 
ORDINANCE NO.:   
(2020) 
 
 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 17 of 32
 
 
 
 
 
 
(This page intentionally left blank) 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 18 of 32
City Council 
Agenda Bill 
AB # 20-073 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TO: 
 
Mayor Olsen and Members of the Bothell City Council 
FROM: 
 
Jennifer Phillips, City Manager 
Jeanie Ashe, Executive (Presenter) 
 
DATE: 
 
June 9, 2020 
SUBJECT: 
 
Consideration of the Redeployment of Lime Scooters in Bothell 
 
 
 
  
POLICY 
CONSIDERATION: 
This item asks the City Council to consider the redeployment of electric scooters 
in the City of Bothell.   
 
If this item is approved, staff will implement the direction given by the City 
Council. 
  
HISTORY: 
DATE ACTION 
JUNE 4, 2019 
 
 
 
OCTOBER 15, 20 
 
 
MARCH 23, 2020 
 
City Council agreed to a 90-day motorized foot 
scooters pilot program. Directed staff to return item 
to Council for action within 90 days. 
 
City Council received a staff report and directed staff 
to continue e-scooter pilot program for 180 days. 
 
Governor Jay Inslee signed the “Stay Home, Stay 
Healthy” order, a proclamation that closed all 
businesses except for essential businesses. 
 
At its June 4, 2019 meeting, Council approved a 90-day pilot program for 
motorized foot scooters. Staff issued a temporary Public Area Use Permit to 
Lime, a micro-mobility shared scooter business, and on July 19, 2019, the 
company launched 100 motorized foot scooters in Bothell.  
 
During the 90-day pilot program, staff received feedback from the community 
and monthly reports from Lime. At the end of 90 days, Council received a staff 
report about the program and approved a 180-day extension to allow Staff the 
time needed to create a permanent micro-mobility program for Council’s 
consideration. In October 2019, Lime temporarily discontinued doing business in 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 19 of 32
City Council 
Agenda Bill 
AB # 20-073 
 
Bothell and pulled all 100 scooters. It is a common practice for Lime to put 
programs on hold in small communities during the winter months. 
 
Lime brought their scooters back to Bothell in early March 2020. On March 16, 
2020, Staff received an email stating that in response to COVID-19 and in an 
abundance of caution, Lime would be temporarily pausing operations and would 
remove its scooters from Bothell within 36 hours. 
 
The scooter-sharing company would now like to resume operations in Bothell as 
soon as possible. 
  
DISCUSSION: Lime reports that they have operated their bikeshare and scootershare business 
throughout the pandemic in major cities (Austin, Baltimore, Los Angeles, and San 
Francisco) with no coronavirus transmission traced to their use. Seattle has 
allowed ongoing operations of bikeshare during the pandemic. 
 
The intent of multi-modal forms of transportation is to encourage the use of 
public transportation. Scooters located near bus stops provide riders the option 
of renting a scooter for the last mile home. Scooters are also a popular 
alternative form of transportation in dense, urban communities. In Bothell, 
primarily students and recreational riders have used scooters. 
 
Staff has not completed development of the formal right-of-way use permit 
process which would officially allow and charge bikeshare and scootershare 
companies to use public right-of-way for staging their equipment.  It is 
anticipated this would come before the Council in late fall 2020.   
  
FISCAL 
IMPACTS: 
None 
  
ATTACHMENTS: 
Att-1. 
E-Scooters: COVID Safety Response 
 
 
RECOMMENDED  
ACTION: 
Provide Staff with direction regarding the redeployment of electric scooters in 
the City of Bothell. 
 
 
 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 20 of 32
As COVID-19 spreads, cities continue to face extraordinary
challenges in ensuring the safety and health of residents
while enabling them to meet critical needs, such as picking
up prescriptions or getting public health staff to work. 
As coronavirus spreads through close personal contact in
shared spaces, single-person micromobility vehicles are a
safer alternative to public transit (which some city leaders
have discouraged use of) or enclosed rideshare vehicles. 
With that in mind, we'd like to announce some of the safety
measures we have rolled out as we reopen some cities under
our LimeAID program. Our main priorities revolve around
preventing on-surface transmission, thorough employee
training, and educating our riders on safety protocols.
Disinfect all surfaces using cleaners and wipe so that
the surface remains visibly wet for five minutes and
then let it dry.
Disinfect a surface using a bleach solution, allowing
the solution to be in contact with the surface for at
least five minutes. Rinse and air-dry.
Focus on frequently touched areas on our vehicles;
Handlebars, Brake, Throttle, etc.
Focus on high traffic areas in our daily operations;
Vans, doorknobs, bathrooms, mechanic stations, etc.
At Lime, we have a responsibility to help reduce the spread
of coronavirus just as we enable communities to respond to
and recover from its impacts
During our LimeAID program we have both morning and
afternoon operations that are dedicated to finding,
diagnosing, and disinfecting our fleet. Every interaction with
a Lime vehicle follows the CDC recommendations for
cleaning and disinfecting, including:
Lime is committed to only using Tier 1 Products
recommended by the ACC, CBC, and EPA for the fight
against the Novel Coronavirus. We are doing daily inventory
checks and working with our suppliers to ensure our
facilities are properly stocked with these supplies.
COVID Safety
Response
Overview
How We Clean and Disinfect Our Scooters
E-Scooters:
As always, we ask riders to stay safe and take the necessary
steps to help protect themselves and our communities, as
advised by local public health officials and detailed on our
blog. Together we can emerge from this crisis and THRIVE. 
We will be focusing our communication efforts to remind
our riders on the below health and safety tips when riding
with Lime.
Take precautions - inspect the scooter to make sure
the wheels, brakes, throttle, lights, and frame are all in
good working condition. For a tutorial please see:
https://safety.li.me/
Hands - wash your hands or use hand sanitizer which is
at least 70% alcohol-based when you arrive at your
final destination. Wear gloves when you can.
Ride Solo - for safety and social distancing; maintain a
distance of at least 6 feet from others.
Identify - bike lanes and be aware of traffic lights and
signs.
Vigilance - remain alert of your surroundings and
potential safety hazards.
Essential Rides Only - rides are for essential travel only,
such as the grocery store, pharmacy or for healthcare
purposes.  No joyriding, and please follow your city’s
shelter-in-place orders. 
A Message To Our Riders
Att-1
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 21 of 32
Experts: Micromobility's Role in
Crisis
"This pandemic has created a moment to
acknowledge the significance of the ways in
which small modes, including cycling, enable
us to safely and resiliently navigate our cities."
Institute for Transportation and
Development Policy
02
“We’d love to see more, and urge mobility
companies to continue to provide shared
bikes and scooters for essential travel,
including discounts and free service to new
customers, especially people providing
essential services.” 
Dave Snyder, Executive Director of
the California Bicycle Coalition
David Freedman, M.D., Professor of
Infectious Diseases at the University of
Alabama at Birmingham
“The virus is not going to jump off the
handlebars...Instead, cleaning your hands
after you touch the handlebars or any other
potentially contaminated surface is probably
the best strategy. It’s really a shared
responsibility between the owners and the
users."
Hazard Communication
Preventing the spread of Transmissible Illness
Cold and Flu Prevention
All employees will be fully outfitted with CDC
approved Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
including but not limited to:
N95 Respirator Mask 
Disposable Nitrile Gloves
Comprehensive PPE  training, such as: 
Respirator Mask training
Glove training, donning, and doffing 
Establishing COVID daily task force to keep the
company updated on any relevant COVID global news
in addition to new safety protocols announced by
health organizations
stopCOVID.co training course 
Social distancing protocols
Preventing on-surface transmission
Before reopening any market all employees must complete
several training courses including:
 
 
Additionally, we have rolled out extensive measures to keep
our local teams well informed of any new safety protocols
we need to administer to ensure the safety of our team and
riders. This is primarily focused around COVID. This includes:
Our Commitment to Employee Training
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 22 of 32
City Council 
Agenda Bill 
AB # 20-074 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TO: 
 
Mayor Olsen and Members of the Bothell City Council 
FROM: 
 
Bruce Blackburn, Senior Planner 
 
DATE: 
 
June 9, 2020 
SUBJECT: 
 
Study Session on the Status of the Canyon Park Subarea Plan Update.  
 
 
 
  
POLICY 
CONSIDERATION: 
This is a status briefing for Council. No action or policy direction requested at this 
time.  
  
HISTORY: 
DATE ACTION 
APRIL 2015 
Council adopts 2015 Periodic Plan Update containing an 
action to undertake a more thorough amendment for 
Canyon Park 
MARCH 2017 Council initiates Canyon Park Plan and Code amendments 
– Vision phase 
SEPTEMBER 2018 Council receives Vision Report 
DECEMBER 2018 Council initiates Analysis / environmental Phase 
FEBRUARY 2019 Council initiates Subarea Plan and Regulations Phase 
DECEMBER 2019 Draft Environmental Impact Statement Issued  
NMOVEMBER 2019 Council received a staff update briefing 
MARCH 4, 2020 Planning Commission recommends a preferred land use 
alternative 
 
  
DISCUSSION: Canyon Park contains one of 29 regional growth centers (RGC) designated by the 
Puget Sound Regional Council (PSRC). PSRC adopted revised criteria for these 
centers in 2018 that call for a minimum of 18 existing activity units and a planned 
capacity of 45 activity units per acre. Activity units are defined as the number of 
people that reside and/or are employed within the designated center. Ensuring the 
Canyon Park RGC complies with these revised criteria is the fundamental objective 
of this subarea plan update. 
 
A Draft Planned Action Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) was issued 
December 6, 2019 which evaluated the impacts of four alternative growth scenarios:   
 
• 
No Action - Existing Comprehensive Plan  
• 
Live/Work – Total mix of 28% residential and 72% employment 
• 
Business Plus – Total mix of 21% residential and 79% employment 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 23 of 32
City Council 
Agenda Bill 
AB # 20-074 
 
• 
Mitigated Live/work – Total mix of 28% residential and 72% employment 
 
The Live/Work and Business Plus Alternatives represent about 16,000 more people 
by the year 2043; about 8,000 to 9,000 more than the existing (2015) 
Comprehensive Plan or the no action alternative.  The Mitigated Live/Work 
alternative represents about 13,600 more people or 5,400 more than the existing 
Comprehensive Plan.  
 
The City received 21 DEIS comments which the City will respond to within the final 
Planned Action EIS to be released this summer.  
 
On March 4, 2020 the Planning Commission held a public hearing where the 
Commission received additional public testimony, deliberated, and voted to 
recommend a preferred land use alternative known as the ‘Middle Ground 
Alternative’ (Attachment 1).  The preferred alternative achieves a total mix of 29% 
residential and 71% employment and about 13,700 more people which is 5,500 
more than the current Canyon Park Subarea Plan. 
 
The staff and consultant team have spent the COVID-19 stay at home period 
thoroughly analyzing the Planning Commission’s preferred land use alternative and 
have prepared additional environmental analysis, draft Subarea Plan policies and 
potential implementing regulations. Further, the team has conducted additional 
transportation modeling and completed a draft market evaluation of the preferred 
alternative.   
 
Urban Design Parameters (Attachment 2) describe the allowed land uses, building 
scale, minimum and target density and intensity, parking minimums, public space 
provisions for each plan designation. The document also contains an example 
illustration for each designation. The proper mix and type of plan designations is 
critical to achieving the vision for Canyon Park and satisfying the PSRC RGC criteria.  
The information in Attachment 2 is guiding the drafting of the development 
regulations and design guidelines for the subarea plan. 
 
Next steps this summer will include online public engagement, public meetings and 
hearings before the Planning Commission, issuance of an addendum to the Draft EIS 
and issuance of the Final EIS. Late summer will include public meetings and hearings 
before the Council with Council adoption of a Planned Action Ordinance late 
summer/early fall.  The Planned Action Ordinance will encompass the subarea plan 
update and regulations. 
  
FISCAL 
IMPACTS: 
This phase of the project is funded by a 2019 proviso from the Washington State 
Legislature.  The funding is reflected in the city budget and is sufficient to complete 
the plan. 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 24 of 32
City Council 
Agenda Bill 
AB # 20-074 
 
  
ATTACHMENTS: 
Att-1. Planning Commission Preferred Alternative 
Att-2. Preferred Alternative Urban Design Parameters 
 
 
RECOMMENDED  
ACTION: 
No action is requested this evening. 
 
 
 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 25 of 32
 
 
 
 
 
 
(This page intentionally left blank) 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 26 of 32
228 ST SE
20 AVE SE
220 ST SE
30 DR SE
31 AVE SE
23 DR SE
MALTBY RD (SR 524)
214 ST SE
BOTHELL-EVERETT HWY (SR 527)
29 DR SE
16 DR SE
26 AVE SE
11 DR SE
17 AVE SE
223 ST SE
227 ST SE
210 ST SE
217 PL SE
224 ST SE
222 ST SE
18 AVE SE
30 CT SE
22 DR SE
208 PL SE
211 ST SE
213 ST SE
20 AVE SE
25 DR SE
23 AVE SE
223 ST SE
19 AVE SE
FILBERT DR
7 AVE SE
14 DR SE
27 DR SE
204 PL SE
231 ST SE
28 AVE SE
219 PL SE
223 PL SE
218 ST SE
226 ST SE
27 AVE SE
13 AVE SE
230 PL SE
234 ST SE
211 ST SE
20 AVE SE
31 DR SE
17 AVE SE
204 ST SE
§
¨
405
Crystal Springs
Elementary
Canyon Creek
Elementary
Skyview Middle 
School
Centennial Park
North Creek Trail
Cedar Grove
Park
North Creek
North Creek
THRASHERS 
CORNER
THRASHERS 
CORNER
CANYON 
PARK PLACE
CANYON 
PARK PLACE
P&R
Middle Ground Alternative
PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION  
PRELIMINARY DRAFT 3/5/2020
Canyon Park
subarea
North Creek Trail
Major proposed ped. 
improvements
River/stream
Park
Water body
Public gathering space
Study area
¼ & ½ mi 
radii
Residential MU - High
Residential MU - Medium
Employment - Medium
Employment - Low
Nbhd center street
500’ Air Quality Buﬀer - Oﬃce Only
Floodway/ﬂood plain
Wetland & buﬀer
Park-and-ride
Bus stop
I-405 Bus Rapid 
Transit (BRT) or 
Swift Green Line 
P&R
Paths and Mobility
Natural Areas
Land Use & Urban Design Proposals
0
¹⁄4
¹⁄2
¹⁄8
Miles
0
1,200
2,400
600
Feet
[
Oﬃce/Residential MU - Medium
Oﬃce/Residential Mixed Use 
(MU) - High
Oﬃce/Residential MU - Low
Through-block 
connections
Revised RGC
PRELIMINARY DRAFT
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 27 of 32
Att-1
 
 
 
 
 
 
(This page intentionally left blank) 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 28 of 32
Att-2 
1 
 
 
Draft Urban Design Concepts by Zone 
 
Zone 
Res. 
Retail 
Minimum Density 
Parking Minimum 
Common 
Usable 
O.S.1 
Private 
O.S.2 
Examples 
Residential MU – High 
Encourages a high intensity (6+ 
stories, typically 
apartments/condos), holistic 
residential neighborhood to 
meet residential growth targets 
and make use of transit, focused 
public investment, and nearby 
job opportunities. 
 
 
Along 
main 
streets 
& 
special 
corners 
Minimum: 
• 90 du/acre 
Target: 
• 133 du/acre 
• 1 stall per 450 SF 
retail + .75 stalls per 
bedroom, but no 
more than 2.2 
stalls/unit 
• (Approx. average 
1.25 stalls per unit.)  
 
 
  
Residential MU – Medium 
Encourages a medium intensity 
(4-6 stories), holistic residential 
neighborhood to meet 
residential growth targets and 
transition between the high-
intensity TOD and nearby job 
opportunities. 
 
 
 
Along 
main 
streets 
& 
special 
corners 
Minimum: 
• 45 du/acre 
Target: 
• 57 du/acre 
• 1.1 stall per 
bedroom, but no 
more than 2.2 stalls 
per unit 
• (Approx. average 1.5 
stalls per unit.) 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
1 Encourage consolidation of public space as central gathering places in neighborhood centers 
(i.e., Thrasher’s Corner, Canyon Park Place, and Canyon Park Business Center). 
2 To be explored further.   
 
 
  Required 
 
  Allowed 
 
  Encouraged 
 
  Not allowed 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 29 of 32
Att-2 
2 
 
 
Zone 
Res. 
Retail 
Minimum Density 
Parking Minimum 
Common 
Usable 
O.S.1 
Private 
O.S.2 
Examples 
Office/Residential – High 
Encourages high-intensity office 
mixed-use development (6+ 
stories) near transit and areas 
impacted by highway air quality 
and noise—while allowing 
residential—to make use of 
focused public investment and 
further develop a transit-oriented 
job center and holistic 
neighborhood. 
 
 
Along 
main 
streets 
& 
special 
corners 
Minimum: 
• 0.60 FAR or 
• 90 du/acre 
Target: 
• 3.00 FAR or 
• 133 du/acre 
• 1 stall / 500 SF 
office/retail 
• Average 1.25 per 
dwelling unit 
 
 
Office 
 
 
Res 
 
 
Office/Residential – Medium 
Encourages medium-intensity 
office mixed-use development 
(3-6 stories) near areas impacted 
by highway air quality and 
noise—while allowing 
residential—to meet growth 
targets, create a holistic 
neighborhood, and transition 
between the high-intensity TOD 
and nearby job opportunities. 
 
 
At 
special 
corners 
Minimum: 
• 0.50 FAR or 
• 45 du/acre 
 
Target: 
• 1.50 FAR or 
• 57 du/acre 
• 1 stall / 500 SF 
office/retail + 0.9 
spaces / 1,000 SF 
light industrial 
• Average 1.5 per 
dwelling unit 
 
 
Office 
 
 
Res 
  
 
Office/Residential – Low 
Encourages lower intensity 
development (1-3 stories) further 
from transit and focused public 
investments. “Missing middle” 
housing makes use of North 
Creek and connects residential 
areas. Commercial makes use of 
highway visibility and existing 
business park.  
 
 
At 
special 
corners 
Minimum:  
• 0.35 FAR 
• 35 du/acre 
Target:  
• 0.50 FAR 
• 35 du/acre 
• 1.5 stalls per 
bedroom, but no 
more than 2.2 stalls 
per unit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Office 
 
 
Res 
 
 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 30 of 32
Att-2 
3 
 
 
Zone 
Res. 
Retail 
Minimum Density 
Parking Minimum 
Common 
Usable 
O.S.1 
Private 
O.S.2 
Examples 
Employment – Medium 
Encourages medium intensity (3-
6 story) office / flex / 
manufacturing to continue 
business park viability and make 
use of proximate transit and 
nearby holistic neighborhood. 
Residential not allowed to 
protect light industrial and 
incubator spaces in business park 
from displacement. 
 
 
At 
special 
corners 
Minimum: 
• 0.50 FAR 
Target: 
• 1.50 FAR 
 
• 1 stall / 500 SF 
office/retail + 0.9 
spaces / 1,000 SF 
light industrial 
 
(minimal) 
 
 
Employment – Low 
Allows low intensity (1-2 story) 
office / flex / manufacturing to 
continue business park viability 
and make use of proximate 
transit and nearby holistic 
neighborhood. Residential not 
allowed to protect light industrial 
and incubator spaces in business 
park from displacement. 
 
 
Minimum: 
• 0.35 FAR 
Target: 
• 0.50 FAR 
• 1 stall / 400 SF office 
+ .9 spaces / 1,000 
SF light industrial 
 
(minimal) 
 
 
 
 
 
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 31 of 32
Att-2 
4 
 
 
Other Considerations 
Affordable Housing 
Throughout, require 5 or 10% of units (depending upon ARCH analysis) to be 
affordable to moderate income households, or for non-residential uses, 5% 
of gross floor area or pay a fee-in-lieu ($11.20/GSF). (See Bothell code for 
Downtown and SR 522 Corridor.)  
Affordable Commercial 
In addition to removing residential as an allowed use to retain, encourage 
and support business and employment in the Subarea, support small 
business space affordability:  
1) Set a maximum retail space size (while accommodating existing 
grocery and hardware uses). 
2) Encourage flexible commercial space to accommodate co-ownership 
and/or growing businesses. 
3) Add design guidelines that encourage neighborhood-oriented small 
businesses on main streets. 
Through-Block Connections 
• 
Require through-block pedestrian/bicycle connections at 
approximately 300 feet intervals. 
• 
Where feasible, align connections to connect a grid and follow 
existing property lines. 
Neighborhood Center Street 
Encourage a “main street” with diverse, neighborhood-serving businesses 
and a lively environment through the following form-based code and/or 
design standards: 
• 
Require active ground floors. 
• 
Require frequent entries (e.g., every 30 feet) to enliven the street and 
ensure space for small businesses. 
• 
Encourage creative space options to accommodate small and 
growing businesses, such as flexible commercial space for co-
ownership. 
• 
Set maximum retail size limits (except for grocery and hardware) or 
average area to ensure a diversity of sizes. 
Residential Transition 
Continue requiring step backs and setbacks adjacent to single purpose 
residential zones to prevent shadows and respect privacy. 
Landscape 
Throughout the area: 
• 
Require street trees in planting strips between the street and 
sidewalk. 
• 
Consider a “green factor” or other method of ensuring vegetation 
replacement. 
• 
Retain much of the existing, mature street landscaping  
June 9, 2020 Agenda Packet  Page 32 of 32
