K:\Executive Committee\2020 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE\AGENDA\Exec Comm Notice 
Agenda 2020-06-11.doc 
      
 Bayfield County Administrator 
117 E 5th Street, PO Box 878, Washburn, WI 54891 
Ph: 715-373-6181     Fx: 715-373-6153 
 
Mark Abeles-Allison, County Administrator   
Kristine Kavajecz, Assistant 
 
 
BAYFIELD COUNTY 
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING 
 
Brett T. Rondeau 
Mary Dougherty 
Fred Strand 
Dennis Pocernich   
Jeff Silbert 
Larry Fickbohm 
 
***  AGENDA  *** 
Dear Committee Members: 
 
This letter is written to inform you of the Bayfield County Executive Committee 
Meeting scheduled for 4:00pm Thursday, June 11, 2020 in the Bayfield County 
Board Room. This meeting will be held in-person and remotely. Supervisors and 
the public will be able to participate in the Meeting via voice either by using 
the internet link or phone number below. 
 
Join Microsoft Teams Meeting  
+1 715-318-2087   United States, Eau Claire (Toll)  
Conference ID: 734 344 915#  
Local numbers | Reset PIN | Learn more about Teams | Meeting options  
Contact Bayfield County at 715-373-6181 if you have access questions.  
 
Any person wishing to attend who, because of a disability, requires special accommodations, should 
contact the County Clerk’s office at 715-373-6100, at least 24 hours before the scheduled meeting 
time, so appropriate arrangements can be made.  
 
 
Notice is hereby given that in the event the standing committee does not have a quorum the County 
Board Chair or Vice Chair may act as an ex officio member (County ordinance, Chapter 3, section 2-
3-1 (c)).  Notice is hereby given that a majority of the Bayfield County Board may be present at the 
meeting to gather information about a subject over which they have decision-making responsibility. 
This constitutes a meeting of the Bayfield County Board pursuant to State ex rel. Badke v. 
Greendale Village Bd., 173 Wis. 2d 553, 494 N.W.2d 408(1993), and must be noticed as such, 
although the County Board will not take any formal action at this meeting. 
 
K:\Executive Committee\2020 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE\AGENDA\Exec Comm Notice 
Agenda 2020-06-11.doc 
1) Call to Order: 
 
 
2) Public Comment 
 
3) Approval of Minutes of May 14, 2020. 
 
4) Public Health COVID-19 Update, Bayfield County Health 
 
5) Broadband Discussion, State Broadband Director, Jaron McCallum and representatives from 
area Broadband Providers.  Centurylink, Norvado, Bayfield Wireless, Charter/Spectrum. 
 
6) 2021 Budget Review with Departments: (4:45pm) 
 
a) District Attorney 
b) Others 
 
7) State CARES “Route to Recovery” grant 
 
8) Discussion and Possible Action Regarding COVID-19 Purchases 
 
a) Jail/Courthouse Sanitizing Equipment 
 
9) Discussion and Possible Action Regarding UPS 
 
10) Discussion and Possible Action Bayfield Procurement Policy 
 
11) Health Dept. Fees Discussion 
 
12) Update on Construction Projects:  
 
a) Human Services:  Completed 
b) DA Office: Completed 
c) Human Resources: Completed 
d) Jail:  Continuing 
 
13) Reports: 
 
a) Regional Refer Truck 
b) Pigeon Lake update 
c) 2021 Budget Planning   
d) Financial Report, end of May 
e) Treasurer’s Report, end of May.  
f) Revenues and Expenditures impacted by COVID-19 
 
 
14)  The Committee may entertain a motion to move in and out of Closed Session pursuant to 
§19.85(1)(e,g), for the purpose of  
a) approving closed session minutes of May 14, 2020 
K:\Executive Committee\2020 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE\AGENDA\Exec Comm Notice 
Agenda 2020-06-11.doc 
b) Business Development Opportunity 
 
 
15) Adjourn 
June 11, 2020 COUNTY BOARD NARRATIVE 
 
 
Item 4.  The Health Director, Sara Wartman will provide a COVID-19 Update.  
Testing in Bayfield County will take place this Thursday Red Cliff and next 
Thursday and Friday in Drummond and Iron River. 
 
Item 5. As a top priority in Bayfield County we have assembled Broadband 
providers in Bayfield County and the State Broadband Director to discuss with us 
two main questions: 
 
A. What can Broadband providers do to improve coverage in the county? 
B. What can Bayfield County do to improve coverage in the county? 
 
The State director has invited Centurylink, Charter/Spectrum, Norvado and 
Bayfield Wireless Representatives. 
 
Item 6:  Letters to the nine departments reporting to the Exec Committee (Clerk, 
Clerk of Court, DA, Treasurer, ROD, Maintenance, IT, Coroner and Admin) were 
sent out asking for them to present to the Executive Committee regarding 2021 
budget plans.  The DA has signed up for the June meeting. 
 
Item 7. Attached is the Governors Routes to Recovery, local government aid 
grant. Details have not been released but they did cite a focus on seven items 
including  
• Emergency operations 
• PPE 
• Isolation housing 
• Testing  
• FMLA and sick leave 
• Meeting local match expenses 
• Cleaning 
 
Attached in the packet is the press release.  I hope to have program details soon. 
 
Item 8.  We have examined several different proposals regarding building cleaning 
/ disinfecting.  These included: 
• UV Light unit that could be moved offer to offer 
• Misters, hydrogen peroxide, etc. 
• Ionizers 
 
Attached in the packet is an ionizing proposal, this is a device that would be 
installed on our air handlers in the jail.  It would be continuous air disinfection.  
We believe this would qualify for some of the above funding as well.  Will have a 
more in-depth presentation at the meeting.  We are strongly leaning towards this 
option as it provides continuous cleaning. 
 
Item 9. We have worked with a number of providers over the past six months 
regarding a replacement Uninterruptible Power Supply for the server room.  We 
received several proposals for the project.  We have selected an option that does 
not require powering down the complex.  We budgeted $36,500.  The bid is 
$49,115 a difference of $12,615. 
 
Item 10. Our auditors have recommended updating our procurement policy.  We 
will have current and proposed drafts of the policy in the dropbox on Monday. 
 
Item 11. At the last meeting the committee saw a letter from the Tavern League 
asking for a reduction in licenses.  The Exec Committee previously acted on 
extended timelines for the 2020/2021 licensing and no late fee penalties.   
 
The Health Committee reviewed this item as their May meeting and supported 
the extended timelines and no late fee penalty but not the pro-rating.  One of the 
reasons was the complexity of establishments, many are seasonal and were not 
open, many continued to operate, some served food, etc. The 2020/2021 fee is 
for the year beginning June 2020. 
 
Item 13. 
a. Funding for a regional refrigeration truck. 
b. An update on Pigeon Lake, water levels rising still, new 8” lift added by 
highway. 
c. 2021 Budget Planning:  Direction letter sent out. 
d. Financial Report, end of May attached  
e. Treasurer’s Report, end of May attached. 
f. I will share a ytd Covide Expenditure report at the meeting.  
1 
 
Minutes of the 
Bayfield County Executive Committee Meeting 
4:00pm, May 14, 2020  
Meeting was held Remotely, with phone and/or video access for members and 
the public. 
 
Members Present:  Jeff Silbert, Mary Dougherty, Dennis Pocernich, Brett Rondeau, Fred 
Strand, Larry Fickbohm 
 
Members Excused:  
 
Others Present:  Mark Abeles-Allison, County Administrator; Kristine Kavajecz-Human 
Resource Director; Jeremy Oswald, Mary Motiff, Sheriff Paul Susienka, Sara Wartman 
 
Meeting Called to Order at 4:00pm by Rondeau. 
 
Election of Chair and Vice Chair: Strand nominate Rondeau for Chair.  Pocernich, Silbert 
motion to close nominations and cast unanimous ballot for Rondeau as Chairman. Motion 
Carried (6-0) 
 
Strand nominate Silbert for Vice-Chair.  Motion Pocernich, Dougherty to close 
nominations and cast unanimous ballot for Silbert for Vice-Chairman. Motion Carried (6-
0) 
 
Public Comment:  
 
Approval of Minutes of April 9, 2020.  Noted that strand voted yes to ordinance. Motion 
Carried. 
 
Investment Policy, Bayfield County Treasurer:  Auditors have requested that the 
county have an investment policy.  Draft policy was included in the packet. County 
Treasurer is comfortable with it.  Abeles-Allison reviewed highlights of the policy. 
Motion Silbert, Fickbohm to approve the investment policy as presented. Motion Carried 
(6-0) 
 
Public Health COVID-19 Update, Bayfield County Health: Bayfield County has zero 
active COVID19 cases. 2 additional persons that had antibody tests that indicate they 
likely had the virus.  About 300 tests have been conducted with about 297 were negative.  
Considering doing another testing event in Bayfield County in June. Safer at Home was 
nullified yesterday so Health Departments are scrambling. Health Department is looking 
2 
 
at various options and would like input from the County Board. Wartman recommends 
that the Emergency Declaration be extended because it makes the county eligible for 
FEMA funding for the overtime associated with an outbreak. Clarification that there are 2 
topics: Emergency Declaration and Emergency Order.    Emergency Declaration expires 
May 18. This is what is being recommended to be extended. Public Health has the 
authority to enact certain orders that would impact a specific individual or business, but 
will rely on action by the county board for more broad orders.  It is recommended that no 
orders be considered at this time and that the public be reassured that plan are in place to 
address an outbreak and that the Health Department will continue to provide guidance. 
 
Abeles-Allison reported that Ashland and Bayfield County Corporation Counsel met this 
morning to discuss enforcement if an ordinance were to be enacted (local order). Bayfield 
County would need to create an ordinance for enforcement of any order.  
 
Executive Committee Ordinance Review: Overview was provided outlining the 
directives of the Executive Committee.  This was reviewed for the benefit of new 
committee members.  Language of the ordinance may need to be modified. 
 
Update on Construction Projects: DHS, DA, HR, Jail: Abeles-Allison reported that 
the DHS project is about 99% complete. The District Attorney/Judge office projects are 
99% complete.  HR Office project is primarily complete.  The Jail renovation project is 
estimated to be completed by the end of June. The Jail project is estimated to come in 
over budget due to a proprietary piece of equipment that was much higher cost than 
budgeted.  
 
COVID-19 Purchases:  Request for proposals was distributed for the purchase of 
Jail/Courthouse Sanitizing Equipment.   A summary of proposals was shared with the 
committee. No recommendation was made. Sheriff, County Administrator, Maintenance  
and Health will review the proposals.  Partial reimbursement may be available through 
FEMA.   
 
Regional Housing Grant: $75,000 regional project. Bayfield County’s contribution is 
requested at $6900. This would come from Contingency Funds. Contingency has a 
current balance of approximately $44,000 available.  Motion Silbert, Strand to approve 
the use of contingency funds for the county’s $6,900 contribution to the Regional 
Housing Grant program. Motion Carried (6-0)  
 
WCA Policy Resolutions: Strand  
Increase payments to towns with county forest plans to $2/acre per year. 
3 
 
Address mental health epidemic in county jails. 
Support expansion of OARS program statewide. 
Financial Incentives for Volunteer Emergency Responders. 
Chronic Wasting Disease treatment, testing, management increases. 
Increase funding for state conservation specific to chronic wasting disease. 
Silbert shared two additional resoltions: 
Expansion of Medicaid funding. 
CAFO Moritorium ordinance for the State, establishment of State Study Committee 
 
Motion Strand, Dougherty to forward these resolutions to the full county board for 
consideration. Motion Carried (6-0) 
 
a. Reports: 
a. Tavern League Letter: Request asking the county to waive fees for 2020.  
Comment was shared that fees could be considered to be pro-rated on the amount 
of time that a business was closed.  
 
b. Emergency Declaration: Board Chair has the authority to extend this, with 
subsequent approval by the county board. 
 
c. Bayfield County Fair: Motiff reported that a final decision on the Fair will be 
made at the County Board. She shared several items that are being considered. 
 
d. Act 185, Property Tax Initiative: State has issued a 90-day deferral option and 
waiver of late fees. This will require municipal and county action to approve. The 
county would be responsible for making settlement payments to municipalities 
regardless. Only 3 counties have voted to do this so far and 30 have elected not to. 
 
e. Pigeon Lake update: UW is looking for a buyer for this property, which has been 
discussed at earlier meetings.  
 
f. Budget Planning Meeting and Budget Survey: To take place on May 19. Budget 
survey is due today.  
 
g. Financial Report, end of April: Financials show revenues are very similar to this 
same time in 2019. Expenditures overall are lower than this time last year because 
all transfers have not yet been completed.  
 
h. Treasurer’s Report and Cash Flow Analysis: Showing a balance about $2 million 
more than 2019, partially due to the additional bonding for highway work. 
Treasurer reports that interest rates have fallen. No concerns with cash flow at this 
time. 
4 
 
 
i. Preliminary Budget Report, Revenues and Expenditures impacted by COVID-19: 
Estimating a $300-$500,000 expenditure impact. 
 
Motion Silbert, Fickbohm  to move into Closed Session pursuant to §19.85(1)(e,g), for the 
purpose of  
j. approving closed session minutes of March 12, 2020 
k. Business Development Opportunity 
l. Tribal County Zoning Lawsuit 
Motion Carried (6-0).  Pocernich reported that he is leaving the meeting. 
 
 
Motion Dougherty, Silbert  to return to open session. Motion Carried (4-0 ) Returned to open 
session at 6:09 pm 
 
Meeting Adjourned at 6:09pm 
 
 
 
8-188 
 
 
 
 
 
FEDERAL GRANT FUNDED PROCUREMENT POLICY 
As per Resolution 2020-14 
 
 
Unless specifically prohibited by the granting authority, grants must be administered through a 
written contractual agreement between the County and the party providing the service. All 
purchases made with grant funds must comply with the terms and conditions of the grant and 
this policy.  If the grant requirements conflict with this policy, the County Administrator may 
suspend those provisions of this policy only for the specific grant and for the duration of that 
grant. The Department Head is responsible to comply with purchases covered by grant funds. 
Uniform Grant Guidance issued by the Federal Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 
outlined the following procurement standards for all dollars applied to federal grant programs: 
 
A. Micro Purchases (Items less than $3,000 $10,000): 
Procurement by micro-purchase is the acquisition of supplies or services, the aggregate dollar 
amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold (§200.67 Micro-purchase). To 
the extent practicable, the non-Federal entity must distribute micro-purchases equitably among 
qualified suppliers. Micro-purchases may be awarded without soliciting competitive quotations if 
the non-Federal entity considers the price to be reasonable. 
 
B. Small Purchases (Items between $3,000 and $150,000 $10,000-$250,000): 
Small purchase procedures are those relatively simple and informal procurement methods for 
securing services, supplies, or other property that do not cost more than the Simplified 
Acquisition Threshold. If small purchase procedures are used, price or rate quotations must be 
obtained from two or more qualified sources.  Any rates for placements set by the State of 
Wisconsin or other Regulator will be used in lieu of obtaining quotations from other qualified 
sources. 
 
C. Large Purchases (Items greater than $150,000 $250,000): 
Follow requirements under 1 (construction) or 2 (all other) below depending on applicability. 
1. Sealed Bids for Construction Contracts: Note that a federally funded public works project 
shall follow the lower dollar threshold requirements of Wisconsin Statutes 66.0901 and 
59.52(29) outlined in the public works projects section above.  Bids are publicly solicited and 
a firm fixed price contract (lump sum or unit price) is awarded to the responsible bidder 
whose bid, conforming to all the material terms and conditions of the invitation for bids, is the 
lowest in price. 
In order for sealed bidding to be feasible, the following conditions should be present: 
(i) A complete, adequate, and realistic specification or purchase description is available; 
(ii) Two or more responsible bidders are willing and able to compete effectively for the 
business; and 
(iii) The procurement lends itself to a firm fixed price contract and the selection of the 
successful bidder can be made principally on the basis of price. 
 
8-188 
If sealed bids are used, the following requirements apply: 
(i) Bids must be solicited from two or more known suppliers, providing them sufficient 
response time prior to the date set for opening the bids, for state, local, and tribal 
governments, the invitation for bids must be publically advertised; 
(ii) The invitation for bids, which will include any specifications and pertinent 
attachments, must define the items or services in order for the bidder to properly 
respond; 
(iii) All bids will be opened at the time and place prescribed in the invitation for bids, and 
for local and tribal governments, the bids must be opened publicly; 
(iv) A firm fixed price contract award will be made in writing to the lowest responsive and 
responsible bidder. Where specified in bidding documents, factors such as discounts, 
transportation cost, and life cycle costs must be considered in determining which bid is 
lowest. Payment discounts will only be used to determine the low bid when prior 
experience indicates that such discounts are usually taken advantage of; and 
(v) Any or all bids may be rejected if there is a sound documented reason. 
2. Competitive Proposals for Other Contracts Greater than $150,000 $250,000: The technique 
of competitive proposals is normally conducted with more than one source submitting an 
offer, and either a fixed price or cost-reimbursement type contract is awarded. It is generally 
used when conditions are not appropriate for the use of sealed bids. If this method is used, 
the following requirements apply: 
(i) Requests for proposals must be publicized and identify all evaluation factors and their 
relative importance. Any response to publicized requests for proposals must be 
considered to the maximum extent practical; 
(ii) Proposals must be solicited from an adequate number of qualified sources; 
(iii) The non-Federal entity must have a written method for conducting technical 
evaluations of the proposals received and for selecting recipients; 
(iv) Contracts must be awarded to the responsible firm whose proposal is most 
advantageous to the program, with price and other factors considered; and 
(v) The non-Federal entity may use competitive proposal procedures for qualifications-
based procurement of architectural/engineering (A/E) professional services whereby 
competitors' qualifications are evaluated and the most qualified competitor is selected, 
subject to negotiation of fair and reasonable compensation. The method, where price is 
not used as a selection factor, can only be used in procurement of A/E professional 
services. It cannot be used to purchase other types of services though A/E firms are a 
potential source to perform the proposed effort. 
 
D. Noncompetitive Proposals: 
Procurement by noncompetitive proposals is procurement through solicitation of a proposal 
from only one source and may be used only when one or more of the following 
circumstances apply: 
 
8-188 
(1) The item is available only from a single source; 
(2) The public exigency or emergency for the requirement will not permit a delay resulting 
from competitive solicitation; 
(3) The Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity expressly authorizes 
noncompetitive proposals in response to a written request from the non-Federal entity; or 
(4) After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is determined inadequate. 
 
Approved  
Cleaning Indoor Air using Bi-Polar Ionization Technology 
Dr. Philip M. Tierno Jr., Professor of Microbiology and Pathology, New 
York University School of Medicine 
April 2017 
Clean air, both outdoors and indoors, is an essential determinant of a healthy life and a person’s 
well being. 
Outdoor Air Quality OAQ): The federal government has made great progress towards cleaning 
outdoor air since 1970 via the Clean Air Act (CAA) and its additional amendments signed into 
law in 1990. This Act resulted in a significant 70% reduction of aggregate emissions of six 
representative indicators of common pollutants between the years of 1970 to 2014! Thusly, the 
CAA laws define the EPA’s responsibilities for protecting and improving the nation’s outdoor air 
quality utilizing the advances in science and technology to accomplish this task (1).  These 
outdoor air quality improvements have enabled many areas of the country to meet national air 
quality standards set to protect public health and the environment. To simply summarize: for 
more than 40 years the CAA has significantly cut outside air pollution even as the U.S. economy 
has grown. Because of the act, Americans breathe less outdoor air pollution and face lower 
premature death and other adverse health effects (1).    
Indoor Air Quality (IAQ): Despite public health awareness and progress on outdoor air 
pollution, progress on indoor air pollution has significantly lagged behind. The quality of air 
inside homes, offices, schools, day care centers, hospitals and other health care facilities (where 
multi-drug resistant bacteria reside), as well as other private and public buildings where people 
spend a large part of their life, is also an essential determinant of health and well being. 
Interestingly, indoor air quality is profoundly important for two main reasons. First, most 
Americans spend about 90% of their time indoors! Second, the EPA has reported that indoor air 
pollution is 25 to 100 times worse than the outdoor air. However there are some standards for 
indoor air. For example, if you work with certain chemicals, sprayed substances, powders or 
known carcinogens or allergens, the Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA), the 
EPA of the workplace, requires employers to reduce risk for workers (2).  The EPA has also 
developed some additional IAQ tools for schools (3). Certainly also the WHO (World Health 
Organization) has a long tradition in synthesizing the evidence on the health aspects of air 
quality and in providing air quality guidelines defining conditions for healthy air (4). IAQ is a 
term, which refers to air quality within as well as around buildings and structures, especially as 
it relates to the health and comfort of the occupants (5). IAQ is affected by gases (such as carbon 
monoxide and carbon dioxide), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), particulates, microbes 
(including bacteria, viruses and mold fungi), allergens, odors of a variety of types, and anything 
else that might affect the quality of the air. 
How We Make Each Other Sick: There are available techniques for cleaning indoor air, but in 
order to better understand these options it is imperative to first discuss the dynamics of how we 
make each other sick.  The great majority of human infections, about 80%, are transmitted by 
direct and indirect contact, and the remaining 20% of infections are transmitted by 3 other 
modalities, namely, common source (contaminated food or drink), arthropod vectors (such as 
1
mosquitoes and ticks), and true airborne droplets (particles 5 micrometers or less, which is 5 
millionths of a meter in size, and which do not readily drop to the affect of gravity. Infections 
such as tuberculosis, SARS and influenza can be spread in this way) (6).   
 
Contact Spread: For contact spread the perspective host must have actual contact with the 
source of germs. Such contact can be direct, indirect or via aerosol droplets. An easy to 
understand example of direct contact is shaking hands or kissing someone who has a cold, 
which can easily spread that cold virus to you.  Coughing, sneezing or talking (are aerosols 
which usually spread within a few feet from the source and the victim) in the face of another 
person in close proximity can also spread their germs directly to that person. On the other hand, 
indirect contact spread is distinguished from direct contact transmission by an intermediate 
object, usually an inanimate object (fomite) like a doorknob or other surface that a contagious 
person has touched or contaminated very recently, then afterwards, you touch it and then touch 
your eyes, nose or mouth or an opening in the skin which are the conduits of entry into your 
body.  
Airborne Spread: Airborne spread implies the spread of germs over a distance of more than 
several feet between the source and the victim. The infectious organisms are usually contained in 
droplet nuclei, which are 5 micrometers in diameter (5 millionths of a meter) or smaller in size. 
These particles can remain suspended in air for hours or days and do not easily fall to the forces 
of gravity. The classic example of airborne spread is the transmission of the tuberculosis bacillus 
by means of droplet nuclei. Another organism spread via airborne is influenza, and yet another 
virus called SARS. We also learned in the post-911 anthrax attacks on NYC and elsewhere that 
the spores of anthrax also travel well in the air and can be kicked-up, so to speak, in particles and 
dust (6).  
 
Allergens: Recently there was a report of a leaky dust filled vacuum cleaner, contaminated with 
Salmonella, which got re-suspended in the air each time the vacuum cleaner was turned on 
thereby infecting and re-infecting the household members.  What is important to understand is 
that dust particles can carry germs but they can also carry allergens. According to the CDC 
allergies are the 6th leading cause of chronic disease in the U.S. at a cost of about $18 Billion all 
told. An interesting statistic often quoted is that the average 1500 sq. ft. house accumulates 
about 40 pounds of dust over a year. And there are approximately 40,000 dust mites and debris 
that are contained in every ounce of dust. Breathing in such air can exacerbate existing allergies 
including asthma. Some ill health effects may show up shortly after a single exposure to 
pollutants in indoor air while some people can become sensitized to biological or chemical 
pollutants after repeated exposure. Other ill health effects may show up either years after 
exposure has occurred, or after repeated periods of exposure to poor indoor air quality (6). 
 
Greatest Risks: Anywhere there is a building or facility that houses numerous people over an 
extended period of time, there is an unquestionable need to provide and/or maintain the quality 
of the indoor air. This is especially so for hospitals, medical centers, and other medical facilities, 
because this is where most of the antibiotic resistant bacteria reside and where many sick 
people are housed. As previously mentioned 80% of all infectious diseases are transmitted by 
direct and indirect contact. This issue is especially important in hospitals where caregivers can 
contribute to unnecessary illness and even deaths. According to the CDC there are almost a 
million nosocomial (hospital acquired) infections that occur every year as well as about 75,000 
deaths from these infections at a cost to society of about $4 billion annually (7).  Nosocomial 
infections, especially those caused by highly antibiotic resistant germs, kill more people every 
year than pancreatic cancer, leukemia, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, and Alzheimer’s 
combined. These diseases are the subjects of large public-relations campaigns to raise 
2
awareness and solicit funds to combat them. Yet nothing as robust exists for nosocomial 
infections.  Certainly antibiotics have saved millions of lives over the past 65 years or so, and will 
save countless others in the decades to come but in one sense the world’s antibiotic use has been 
a 65 year experiment in self-sabotage. The selective ability to develop antibiotic drug resistance 
has allowed us to create more and more dangerous germs. Misuse of wonder drugs has created 
superbugs. Nowhere are superbugs more prevalent than in hospitals and medical facilities (6). It 
is of the utmost importance to prevent infection in anyway and everyway we can (including use 
of advanced technology that can maintain indoor air quality)., so as not to be faced with a 
treatment dilemma.  
 
Available Techniques for Purifying and/or Positively Affecting Indoor Air Quality: There 
are currently several technologies on the market that are useful to varying degrees for the 
purification of air and the maintenance of IAQ, allowing for reduction of infectious agents such as 
bacteria, viruses and fungi, as well as reduction in allergens and other particulates, especially 
useful in hospitals and other medical facilities. If we can greatly reduce or prevent an infection 
from occurring, we do not have to worry about antibiotic resistance or other problematic aspects 
of treating them. In a similar way reducing or eliminating allergens may more positively affect 
the 6th leading cause of chronic disease in the U.S. –allergies and asthma. These IAQ purification 
techniques are listed as follows in order of decreasing efficacy: Bi-Polar Ionization, PCO/PCI 
(photo-catalytic oxidation) technology, Needle-point Ionization, HEPA Air Filters, UV Light, 
Electrostatic precipitation. Of the aforementioned, there is only one technology that satisfies all 
of the tenants for providing clean indoor air quality for an entire building, which uses low 
energy, is effective against bacteria, viruses, and mold fungi (whether in air or on surfaces), 
neutralizes particulates, breaks down VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds) eliminates unpleasant 
odors, eliminates static electricity, and produces no chemical or harmful by-products (including 
NO ozone production) and this is accomplished by the production of positive and negative ions 
(bipolar ionization). That system is AtmosAir Bipolar Ionization.  
 
Bipolar Ionization: Bipolar ionization is created when an alternating voltage source (AC) is 
applied to a special tube with two electrodes. When voltage is applied to the tubes 
electrodes (like electricity is applied to a light bulb’s filament) an ionization field is 
produced around the tube (just as light is produced from the light bulb). However the 
ionization cannot be seen but its presence will result in “mountain air” freshness. Such ions 
occur naturally especially on mountain tops and waterfalls, where the production of both 
positive and negative ions purify the air. Such a system has significant commercial and 
industrial applications. The airflow distributes the energized ions into all spaces served by 
the duct system in an in-duct installation or into the application space if a standalone is 
used. The beauty of the AtmosAir system is just how easily it integrates into existing 
commercial and residential HVAC systems. Unlike most air purification systems AtmosAir 
seeks out particulates and contaminants, including germs and does not wait for pollutants 
to find their way into the filter within the air handler. Instead charged ions go to the 
contaminants in the space where you breathe, just as in nature, and do so in a 
continuous fashion and with continuous disinfection.  
 
These positively and negatively charged ions have an effect on dust particles, allergen 
VOC’s, odors, and bacteria, viruses, molds and mold spores. For example, regarding 
particles--- oppositely charged ions cause particles to attract to other particles and become 
bigger and heavier, by a process called “agglomeration”. These bigger heavier particles can 
now be better trapped by HVAC system filters so the filters operate more efficiently. Also 
3
many small particles that are generated within a space by people and their activities may 
never get to system filters and ordinarily stay suspended in air for long periods and can be 
breathed in, increasing the chance of illness and respiratory distress. The bi-polar ion 
process will drop these to the floor quickly taking them away from where we breathe. 
VOC’s or gaseous chemical off gasses typically cause odors and irritations.  These are also a 
major source of “Sick Building Syndrome” complaints, where people feel ill at work but feel 
better when they leave the building. Bi-Polar ions break down hydrocarbon chains that 
make up these complex compounds into immeasurable levels of carbon dioxide and water 
vapor. On micro-organisms like bacteria, virus and molds, bi-polar ions will interrupt the 
reproductive ability of these organisms so rather than colony forming units (cfu) 
increasing and spreading and expanding, they shrink away and lessen the chance of 
infection.  
 
 
The Effect of Bipolar Ionization generators on microorganisms: 
 
 The negative and positive ions that are generated by BPI are designed to treat and allow 
energy imparted by the ions to transform ordinary oxygen into Reactive Oxygen Species 
(ROS), Superoxides, Peroxides, and Hydroxyls. These ions have the property of clustering 
around micro-particles, and thus, they surround harmful substances such as airborne mold, 
viruses, bacteria and allergens. At that point, a chemical reaction occurs on the cell 
membrane surface, and they are transformed into OH radicals, which are powerfully active 
(Standard Oxidation Potential  [V] = 2.81 for OH vs H2O2 = 1.78 and OO2 = 1.23) and 
because they are unstable they rob the harmful substance of a hydrogen atom (H). The  
result is that they are inactivated by severing the protein on cell membrane, which causes 
the opening of holes, thusly destroying the entity. The OH radicals instantly bond with the 
removed hydrogen(H), forming water vapor (H2O) which returns to the air. It is most 
important to note that bipolar ionization kills microbes without damaging DNA (therefore it 
does not cause cancer) in the interior of cells and unlike other physical and chemical agents, 
such as UV light, radioactivity and use of caustic chemicals, BPI is totally GREEN and it does 
NOT adversely affect the environment in any way.  
 
 
See the figures below, which pictorially help explain this process: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mechanism for Inactivating Airborne Virus 
 
The positive (H+) and negative (O2-) ions 
surround the hemagglutinin (surface proteins 
that form on organisms and trigger infections) 
and change into highly reactive OH groups 
called hydroxyl radicals (•OH). These take a 
hydrogen molecule from the hemagglutinin and 
change into water (H2O). The ions destroy the 
virus surface structure, for example its 
envelopes and spikes, on a molecular level. As a 
result, the virus cannot infect even if it enters the 
body. 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Bi-Polar Ion technology accomplishes these benefits by sizing systems that consist of 
one of more bi-polar ion tubes, to the airflow rate of the HVAC system and the particulars of 
the space. The system then saturates the spaces with adequate quantities of bi-polar ions to 
ensure these reactions can occur. See below some pictures of installed systems: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One advantage to the way the bi-polar ion technology is applied is that it requires no re-
engineering of the HVAC system, requires no continual adjustment or maintenance except a 
replacement of the bi-polar ion tube every 2 years.  
 
In laboratory testing bi-polar ion systems have shown significant contaminant reduction 
capabilities. The active process of the ions saturating the space to get to the source of 
contamination shows great efficiency when compared to passive technologies that must 
bring the contaminant to the device to be affected. See the below chart of comparison testing 
of CADR rate (Clean Air Delivery Rate): 
 
 
 
Bi-polar ion systems have show good performance on dust particles, VOC’s and micro-
organisms both in air and on surfaces, see below some testing charts from this technology: 
 
 
 
Technology 
CADR Rate 
AtmosAir B-Polar Ionization 
125 
Lennox Photo Catalytic Oxidation 
47.4 
Honeywell Electronic Air Cleaner 
35.8 
Emerson Polarized Media Filter 
27.2 
Sharper Image Ionic Breeze 
4.8 
GPS Needlepoint Ionizer 
1.3 
Activetek PCO 
-3.9 
Mechanism for Inactivating Bacteria, Fungi 
 
The positive (H+) and negative (O2 
-) ions cluster together on the surface of 
airborne bacteria or  fungi, causing a chemical 
reaction that results in the creation of highly 
reactive OH groups called hydroxyl radicals 
(•OH). The hydroxyl radical will take a hydrogen 
molecule from the cell wall of an airborne 
bacteria or fungi particle.  
Source: Intertek ETL 
 
Testing was performed to standard ASNI/AHAM 
AC-1-2002. Testing rated relative performance 
on .3 micron particles in a standard 10”x10’x10’ 
chamber.  
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AtmosAir TVOC Testing 
Test Site 
Percentage 
Reduction 
Kilroy Realty 
79% 
Hyatt Hotel 
95% 
Staples Center 
90% 
Santa Ana Schools 
97% 
USC 
97% 
Rivers Casino 
90% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined with the ability to provide cleaner and healthier air is also the ability for bi-polar 
ions systems to enable a building to save energy. When air quality and the typical 
contaminants are considered and a proven strategy is used to control those contaminants 
(per ASHARE 62.1 IAQ Procedure) ventilation code required outside air introduction can be 
reduced and greater volumes of already conditioned air can be re-circulated. This allows a 
building’s air handlers to cycle less and run for shorter durations and well as chillers and / 
or condensing units. This can enable significant HVAC energy savings sometimes up to 
20% which, in turn, will impact the overall electrical and gas, oil or generated steam cost.  
 
This strategy has been proven in several studies. The US Army in a project co-
sponsored by DOE conducted a study with bi-polar ionization and reducing outside air 
need in a test building. The study concluded that a reduction of outside air from 40 cfm 
(cubic feet per minute) per person occupancy down to 5 cfm per person combined with bi-
Source: Intertek ETL 
 
Testing was performed to standard ASNI/AHAM 
AC-1-2002. Testing showed performance on .3 
micron particles in a standard 10”x10’x10’ 
chamber. Without AtmosAir a 12.8% natural 
decay rate was measured while with AtmosAir 
supplying ions to the chamber an 85.8% decay 
rate was measured.  
Source: Aircuity Inc, EMSL Analytical, Healthy 
Buildings International, DTS Environmental 
 
TVOC levels as well as fixed gas levels were 
measured using Aircuity Optima monitors, EPA 
TO-15 and EPA TO-17 method analyzed by 
capillary gas chromatography and mass 
spectroscopy 
Source: Microchem Laboratory, Round Rock, 
TX 
 
Clostridium Difficile (C-Diff0 was studied to see 
the affect of AtmosAir bi-polar ions. After 24 
hours the percentage reduction was 99.98% 
when compared to the control group, a 3.64 log 
reduction. 
Source: AntiMicrobial Test Labs, Round Rock, TX  
 
Staphylococcus Saprophyticus, Escherichia coli 
and MS2 Bacteriophage were aerosolized in a test 
chamber and a control group and test group were 
studied. All three organisms showed a 99% 
reduction after only 15 minutes of exposure to 
AtmosAir bi-polar ions when compared to a 
control group 
6
polar ionization resulted in overall improved air quality in particles, spores and VOC levels 
while showing a reduction in HVAC power demand of 23%. This resulted in over 50 full-
scale building integrations and growing. In a similar case study, Staples Center in Los 
Angeles, CA studied bi-polar ionization along with a strategy that included reduction of 
outside air by 50% and downsizing media filters from MERV 14 to 11. The study showed 
overall better air quality with particle and VOC reductions and HVAC power demand 
decrease of 21%. This study led to a full-scale integration of bi-polar ionization and reduced 
outside air and downsized filters throughout the entire arena. Because Bi-polar ionization 
will go to the source of contamination, a larger percentage of particles are affected than 
with filter systems. It has the effective filtering capacity of MERV 13 filtration without the 
static load on the air system. 
 
 
Comparative Cost Savings and Simple Installation: 
The bi-polar ion technology can enable significant cost reductions when compared to the 
cost of HVAC equipment. Typically HVAC equipment costs approx $1,500 per ton with a ton 
being equal to 400 supply cfm capacity or approx 400 square feet capacity so cost would be 
$3.75 per cfm or square foot. A bi-polar ion system installed costs approx .80 per cfm or per 
square foot, so bi-polar ionization with its ability to reduce outside air and the tonnage 
needed to condition that air, provides a cost effective solution to providing good IAQ in 
buildings. Overall energy use in a typical building is 50% HVAC related and of that HVAC 
energy use is over 50% from having to condition outside air so the energy savings impact is 
substantial. Also bi-polar ion systems are very easy to integrate into new or existing HVAC 
systems. Systems can be easily installed into the main supply duct of the HVAC system so 
the bi-polar ion tubes can be inserted into the supply airflow and saturate the interior with 
bi-polar ions. A typical system that can serve up to 15,000 square feet can be installed in 
under an hour. Also the same system uses less than 50 watts of power to operate and 
imparts a negligible static pressure on the airflow, so these systems do not impose an 
energy penalty by their use as adsorbent technologies such as carbon filters or other types 
of air scrubber systems will by their operation. When compared to a high efficiency filter for 
cost of operation, AtmosAir systems will cost 90% less to operate due to the low airflow 
restriction and operating cost.  
 
Some Additional Supportive Research 
 As previously mentioned nosocomial infections in hospitals, especially with highly 
antibiotic resistant germs, infect about a million patients annually, killing about 75,000 of 
them at a cost of about $2 billion. Several published studies have shown the usefulness of 
bipolar ionization controlling airborne bacterial populations.  For example, there is ample 
evidence that airborne route of transmission is important in the epidemiology of several 
nosocomial bacteria including Acinetobacter spp infections (8). Multiple antibiotic resistant 
Acinetobacter spp have emerged as a significant health-care associated infection 
(nosocomial) and these microbes usually become endemic throughout the hospital (9). The 
above cited study reported that Acinetobacter spp cases were reduced from 11 to 2 (p= 
0.007) using bipolar ionization.  Further, this study reported that it is clear that ionization 
has a likely role in prevention of Acinetobacrter infections (8).  
 
There is growing evidence that bioaerosols can be generated in an indoor setting by 
ventilation or air conditioning systems, dust or shed skin disturbance, coughs, and sneezes 
among others (10, 11). Several other studies have demonstrated that hospital activities, 
7
such as bed making, caused significant aerosolization of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus (12, 13). Even nurses polypropylene aprons, along with other plastic materials used 
in a healthcare setting generated static electric fields and collected high numbers of 
microbes (14).  Another study reported that when surgeons perform endoscopic surgery 
they frequently point to a video monitor during the procedure and they found that bacteria 
grew when a gloved hand passed within 4 cm of the monitor but not beyond 8 cm distance 
(15).  In another study, a 40-50 % reduction in microbial air pollution was found after 
employing a 13.5 kV corona-type ion generator every second week in a dental clinic (16). 
Similar types of studies have been conducted for non-biological particles in the 
semiconductor industry. Another major study evaluated the effect of surface charge and air 
ionization on deposits of airborne bacteria (17). They found that implementation of bipolar 
ionization resulted reduction of bacterial deposition. This is important because static 
charges on fomite surfaces may attract resulting deposition in excess of that expected by 
gravitational sedimentation or simple diffusion (17). Their findings suggest that highly 
charged bioaerosols and materials used in patient setting may represent an important new 
avenue for exploration and research into reduction of hospital-acquired infections. 
 
Airborne movement of dust, and other particulates has frequently been implicated as a 
potential mechanism for transmitting Salmonella enteritidis infection in poultry houses (18). 
In order to determine whether air ionization would affect airborne transmission of S. 
enteritidis, baby chicks were housed in four controlled–environment isolation cabinets in 
which airflow was directed across an unoccupied central area from one (“upstream”) group 
of birds to another (“downstream”) group (18). Ionizers were installed in two of the 
caninets. In three replicate trails, groups of chicks were placed in the upstream end of the 
transmission cabinets and orally inoculated with S. enteritidis  at one week of age. On the 
following day, 1-day-old chicks were placed in the downstream end of the cabinets. When 
chicks were sampled at 3 and 8 days post-inoculation, S. enteritidis was found on the surface 
of 89.6% of the downstream chicks from cabinets without negative air ionizers, but on only 
39.6% of the downstream chicks in the presence of the ionizers. Most importantly, 
S.enteritidis was recovered from the ceca of 53.1% of sampled downstream chicks in 
cabinets without ionizers, but only 1 % of the ceca of chicks in cabinets with ionizers 
installed (18). 
 
Studies of the effects of ionization on bacterial aerosols in a burns and plastic surgery unit 
were studied (19). It is known that the microbial contamination of the air in burn units is 
high (20).  A classic study demonstrated in single rooms where isolated patients were 
nursed, the ionization experiments of 24 h periods with -5kV showed lower sedimentation 
bacterial counts during ionization on two repeated occasions (19). The total colony counts 
represent contamination due to staff and patients. Phage typed finger-printing of 
Staphylococcus aureus strains in the air indicate shedding by individual patients. Although 
the sheath bacteria-carrying epithelial cells is large, the number of S. aureus 
bearing particles was significantly decreased by ionization. Clearly the number of S. aureus 
shed by patients in presented cases was also lower during the ionization (19). In a similar 
study, researchers performing experiments with animal respiratory diseases caused by 
Newcastle disease virus suggested that contamination of the air by droplets that carry other 
bacteria like Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Mycoplasma pneumonia, and other microbes (like 
Legionella pneumophila), may also be prevented by ionization of the air (21).  They suggest 
that ionization of air may prove to be an alternative to increased air ventilation and 
filtration (21).  
 
8
Air ionization has a long history of varied applications. In one published review article on 
the ionization of air for removal of “noxious effluvia”,   a presentation of recent 
developments in the application of controllable air ionization processes that apply 
dielectric-barrier discharge devices to generate non-thermal plasmas have led to 
applications for chemical and biological decontamination in indoor environments (22).  
These include significant reductions in airborne microbes, neutralization of odors, and 
reduction of VOCs.  Also removal of very fine particulates (PMx) is also enhanced by air 
ionization. The physics and chemistry of air ionization, and its utility for contributing to 
significant improvements in indoor air are discussed in detail (22).   
  
The efficacy of bipolar ionization technology against a wide variety of pathogens was 
confirmed through collaborative research (23).  Efficacy in inhibiting of airborne target 
substances noted below was verified by exposing those organisms to an ion concentration 
of at least 3000 ions/cm3. Effective kill was achieved in seconds to minutes dependent upon 
the microbe, the exposure time, and the concentration of ions. Studies have shown that a 
more rapid kill-time can be achieved by increasing concentration of ions. For example, 
Sharp Corporation studies in collaboration with Retroscreen Virology Ltd demonstrated 
that the highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza virus could be inactivated by 99.9% in ten 
minutes using a high bipolar ion concentration of 50,000 ions/cm3 (24). Sharp has also 
shown that reduction by 99% could be achieved in ten minutes at a concentration of 7000 
ions/cm3 (24). It is very important to understand that during actual real-time in-use 
conditions, bipolar ionization systems perform in a continuous steady fashion with 
continuous disinfection so that large bolus concentrations are unnecessary for 
effectiveness.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
The results of a series of studies are summarized in the chart below (23, 24): 
 
 
 
Air ionization, although historically well documented and technologically well advanced, is 
just now entering the field of treatment of specific targets in indoor environments, which 
directly affect the IAQ and bring with it the potential for associated health benefits!  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
References: 
 
1)  US-EPA – Indoor Air Quality, www.epa.gov/IAQ, 2016. 
 
2)  NIOSH – Indoor Environmental Quality.cdc.gov.retrieved 2012-03-02 
 
 3) US-EPA - Improve Indoor Air Quality in Schools | Improving Air   Quality in 
2016-02-21 
https://archive.epa.gov/airquality/community/web/html/i-schools.html 
Information on Improving Air Quality in Your Community 
 
4)  Indoor air pollution - World Health Organization 
www.who.int/indoorair/publications/en/17 March 2016; Indoor air 
quality guidelines: household fuel combustion 24 November 2014; Selected 
pollutants: WHO guideline for indoor air quality. 
 
5) IAQ - Introduction to Indoor Air Quality - US EPA 
https://www.epa.gov/indoor-air-quality-iaq/introduction-indoor-air-quality 
 
6) Tierno, PM. Protect Yourself Against Bioterrorism. Pocket Books Division of 
Simon & Schuster, New York, 2002. 
 
7) Tierno, PM. The Secret Life of Germs. Atria Book Division of Simon and 
Schuster, New York, 2001. 
 
8) Kerr, KG, Beggs CB, et al. Air Ionization and Colonization/Infection with 
Methicillin-resistant S. aureus and Acinetobacter species in an Intensive Care 
Unit. Intensive Care Med 134:315-31, 2006. 
 
9) Marais E, de Jong G, et al. Interhospital Transfer of Pan-resistant 
Acinetobacter strains in Johannesburg, South Africa. Am J Infect control. 32:278-
28, 2004. 
 
10) Schaal, KP. Medical and Microbiological Problems Arising from Airborne 
Infections in Hospital. J Hosp Infect 18:451-459, 1991. 
 
11) Beggs CB. The Airborne Transmission of Infection in Hospital Buildings: Fact 
or Fiction? Indoor Built Envioron 12: 9-18, 2003. 
 
12)  Overton E. Bedmaking and Bacteria. Nurs Times 84:69-71, 1988. 
 
13) Shiomori T, et al. Evaluation of Bedmaking-related Airborne and Surface 
Methicillin-resistant S. aureus Contamination. J Hosp Inf 50:30-55, 2002. 
 
11
14) Allen J, et al. Static Electric Fields as a Mediator of Hospital Infection. Indoor
Built Environ 15:49-52, 2006.
15) Becker, R, et al. Static Electricity as a Mechanism of Bacterial Transfer
During Endoscopic Surgery. Surg Endosc 10:397-399, 1996.
16) Gabbay J et al.  Effect of Ionization on Microbial Air Pollution in the Dental
Clinic. Environ Res 52:99-106, 1990.
17) Meschke S, et al. The Effect of Surface Charge, Negative and Bipolar
Ionization on the Deposition of Airborne Bacteria. J Appl Microbiol 106:1133-
1139, 2009.
18) Gast RK, et al. Application of Negative Ionization for Reducing Experimental
Airborne Transmission of Salmonella enteritidis to Chicks. Poultry Science 78:57-
61, 1999.
19) Makela P, et al. Studies on the Effects of Ionization on Bacterial Aerosols in a
Burns and Plastic Surgery Unit. J Hyg (London) 83:199-208, 1978.
20) Hambraeus A. Studies on the Transmission of Staphylococcus aureus in an
Isolation Ward for Burned Patients. J Hyg 71:171-175, 1973.
21) Estola T, et al. The Effect of Air Ionization on the Air-borne Transmission of
Experimental Newcastle Disease Virus Infections in Chickens. J Hyg 83:59-66,
1979.
22) Daniels SL. On the Ionization of Air for Removal of Noxious Effluvia. IEEE
transaction on Plasma Science, 30:1471-1481, 2002.
23) Oxford JS. Efficacy of Cluster Ions on Various Pathogens Confirmed Through
Collaborative Research. Retroscreen Virology, Ltd, London UK, PC: 2017.
24) Sharp-world.com/corporate/news/080827.html, 2009.
About the author 
Dr. Tierno is Professor of Microbiology and Pathology at NYU School of Medicine and 
NYU Langone Medical Center. Dr. Tierno also serves on the Global Hygiene Council. 
Dr. Tierno is the author of the book, The Secret Life of Germs, and has authored or co-
authored several other publications. Dr. Tierno has served on the New York City 
Mayor’s Task Force on Bio Terrorism.
12
AtmosAir Solutions™
CAG-11-19-001
418 Meadow Street. Suite 204 Fairfield, CT 06824
--
2115 East Cedar Street, Suite 6 
T
empe, AZ 85281
v
PRODUCT SUBMITTAL
Contact Us
1-888-MY
-AIR11
www.AtmosAir.com
Application:
The AtmosAir 508FC ionization system is intended to be mounted 
in the supply air duct or air handling system of a heating, cooling 
or ventilation system. The unit is intended to produce bi-polar ions 
when airflow is delivered over the ion tubes. Power to the unit can 
be controlled with an optional air pressure differential switch or 
interlocked with HVAC fan operation, provided the power delivered 
to the unit does not exceed it’s rated voltage. Ionization intensity can 
be adjusted with a 5 step knob on the unit. Power to the unit can 
be turned off at the unit or a quick disconnect at the power cord. 
Standard systems are IP54 rated.
Optional Accessories:  Air Pressure Switch; Mounting Bracket; 
Timer; Remote Monitoring Panel; Remote Ion Switch and Indicator 
Light; Remote Indicator Light Only; IP66.
508FC
General Product Information
Air Flow Capacity
Up to 15,000 CFM
Pressure Drop
See Figure 1
Housing Material
22 gauge powder-coated steel
Weight
22.5 lbs (10.2 kg.)
Max Operation Temp.
160° F (71° C)
Electrical
Rated 
Voltage
110 to 250 
VAC
Frequency
50/60 Hz
Power Consumption
55 Watts
Current Draw
0.240 Amps
Internal Fuse
500mA FST Glass 5mm x 20mm
Field Electrical Connection
Nema 5-15 plug or 3 wire to Junction Box
Ionization Tube
Material
Mono-Core Composite, Stainless Steel
Max Quantity
Eight (8)
Size
F size = 22” (559mm)
Estimated Tube Life
2 Years or 17,600 Hours
Approvals
ETL; [UL 1995:2015 Ed.5] [CSA C22.2#236:2015 Ed.5] [UL 867:2011 Ed.5 +R:07Aug2018] [UL SUBJECT 
867A:2014 Ed.1]
Specifications:
508FC
Flowrate (CFM)
Inches WG
15,000
29.7 x 10-3
7.40
Pascal (Pa)
Figure 1
FIGURE 2
Phone: 203-335-3700 (CT) / 480-629-4784 (AZ) 
Fax: 203-335-1075
www.AtmosAir.com 
418 Meadow Street, Suite 204  Fairfield, CT 06824 
-- 
2115 E. Cedar Street, Suite 6  Tempe, AZ 85281 
SolutionsTM
ONS; 
26” 
24” 
Duct Cut-Out Length
9”
5.25” 
4.5” 
9.5" 
…………..……...........................………...up to 15,000 CFM
……………………….............................................. (see Fig. 1)
……………..............................22-gauge powder-coated steel
…………………….....................................22.5 lbs. (10.2 kg.)
Temperature……..……….............................160° F (71° C)
…………………………...............................110 to 250 VAC
…….……………………………..............................60/50 Hz
…………………………….……..............................55 watts
…………………………….….............................. 0.240 Amps
……………………………………............................0.5 Amp
ection;............   Nema 5-15 plug or 3 wire to Junction Box
TUBES; 
…….............................Multi-Core Composite, Stainless Steel
…….……………………………................................Eight (8)
……………………….........................F Size = 22” (558mm)  
………………...….............................2 Years or 17,600 Hours
;…………………………………….see Figure 2
oratories Inc. listed as plenum-rated per UL 1995, 
  Energy Star Certified.
bi-polar ions when airflow is delivered over the ion tubes. Power t
the unit can be controlled with an optional air pressure differenti
switch or interlocked with HVAC fan operation, provided th
power delivered to the unit does not exceed it’s rated voltag
Ionization intensity can be adjusted with a 5 step knob on the uni
Power to the unit can be turned off at the unit or a quick disconnec
at the power cord. 
OPTIONS; 
Air Pressure Switch; Mounting Bracket; Timer; Remote Monitorin
Panel; Remote Ion Switch and Indicator Light; Remote Indicator light
Only. IP66
FIGURE 1 
27.75”
10.75”
Duct Cut-Out Width
8-002
Tube Life............................................................. 2 years or 17,600 hrs.
Frequency............................................................................................... 50/60 Hz
Current Draw............................................................................................. 37 mA
Material............................................................. Multi-Core Composite
PRODUCT SUBMITTAL 
418 Meadow Street, Suite 204  Fairfield, CT 06824 
-- 
2115 E. Cedar Street, Suite 6  Tempe, AZ 85281 
Phone: 203-335-3700 (CT) / 480-629-4784 (AZ) 
Fax: 203-335-1075
www.AtmosAir.com 
8.5"
AtmosAir Matterhorn 1002 
SPECIFICA
TIONS; 
Dimensions
Duct Cut-Out
5.5"
Air Flow Range............................................................ up to 5000 CFM 
Pressure Drop........................................................................ See figure1 
Housing Material.............. Flame-rated, High Impact Strength ABS 
Max Weight.................................................................... 7.7 lbs.(3.5 kg.)
Maximum Operation Temperature.............................. 150° F (65° C) 
ELECTRICAL; 
Voltage...........................................................................................110 - 115 VAC 
Power Consumption................................................................... 6 Watts (nom)
Internal Fuse................................................................. 1 Amp  (5mm x 20mm)
Field Electrical Connection, 3-Wire to Jct. Box or Country 
Specific Cord-Set
IONIZATION TUBE; 
Number........................................................................................ Two(2) 
Size....................................................... C (7"), D (9.5"), E (14"), F (21")
DIMENSIONS;............................................................. see Figure 2 
8.75"
APPLICATION 
The Matterhorn 1002 ionization system is intended 
to be mounted in the supply air duct or air handling 
system of a heating, cooling or ventilation system. 
The unit is intended to produce bi-polar ions when 
airflow is delivered over the ion tubes. Power to the 
unit can be controlled with an optional air pressure 
differential switch or interlocked with HVAC fan 
operation, provided the power delivered to the unit 
does not exceed it’s rated voltage. Ionization 
intensity can be adjusted with a 5 step knob on the 
unit. Power to the unit can be turned off at the unit 
or a quick disconnect at the power cord. 
OPTIONAL 
ACCESSORIES; 
Air Pressure Switch; Mounting Bracket; IP66 
FIGURE 1 
APPROVALS; 
Underwriters Laboratories Inc. as plenum-rated per UL 
1995/867; file # 313742.   Energy Star Certified.   
FIGURE 2 
6"
4"
AtmosAir SolutionsTM
Version: CAG-03-19-001
Indicator
Light 
Ion Selector Knob 
Internal Fuse
C Tube…..7” /178 mm 
D Tube..9.5” /241 mm 
E Tube….14” /356 mm 
F Tube….21” /533 mm 
1"
& power cord
receptacle
C 
(2)
2000
0.0080
2.00
34.00
D 
(2)
3000
0.0241
6.00
35.00
E 
(2)
4000
0.0482
12.00
35.00
F 
(2)
5000
0.0683
17.00
37.00
M - 1002
Tube 
     Tube
Type   Number
Flowrate 
(CFM)
Inches 
WG
Pascals
Steady State 
Current (mA)
Static Pressure Drop was calculated at 1,500 ft/min (7.62 m/s) airflow velocity.
PRODUCT SUBMITTAL 
418 Meadow Street, Suite 204  Fairfield, CT 06824 
-- 
2115 E. Cedar Street, Suite 6  Tempe, AZ 85281 
Phone: 203-335-3700 (CT) / 480-629-4784 (AZ) 
Fax: 203-335-1075
www.AtmosAir.com 
AtmosAir FC400 
SPECIFICATIONS 
Air Flow Capacity…...…………..………….........up to 1,400 CFM
Pressure Drop…………………….……..< 5 Pascals (see Fig. 1)
Housing Material………………………………….ABS UL94-V0 
Weight……………………………………………    .70 pounds 
Maximum Operation Temperature……..……..150° F (65.5° C) 
ELECTRICAL 
Internal Voltage…………………………………….......12 VAC
Frequency……………….……………………………..50/60 Hz 
Power Consumption…………………………….…….....5 watts 
Current Draw………………………………….…….0.034 Amps 
Internal Fuse……………………………………..…..……1 Amp
Field Electrical Connection…………110V/270V Auto-Selecting
IONIZATION TUBE 
Material……………………………MCG; Glass, Stainless Steel
Number………………….………………………...…....One (1) 
Size……………………………………………………....…B (3”) 
Tube Life………………………….……………....17,600 Hours
Options:  Air Switch, universal stainless steel mounting bracket 
DIMENSIONS…………………………………….see Figure 2 
APPROVALS 
Underwriters Laboratories Inc. Power Supply per UL 60950 
ROHS Compliant CSA222.2 
APPLICATION 
The AtmosAir FC400 ionization system is intended to be 
mounted in the supply discharge in smaller air handling 
systems such as fan coil, heat pump and other unitary 
type systems.  The system can be integrated on an OEM 
basis or a retrofit package is also provided.  The unit will 
be 
calibrated 
at 
the 
factory 
per 
AtmosAir 
recommendations to attain ion level readings of 
between 350 and 1,500 –ions/cm3. 
FIGURE 2 
3.5”
(89mm)
Indicator Light 
6” (152.5mm)
5.5” (140mm)
2.6”
(66mm)
1.6”
(40.6mm)
Ionization Tube
Control Knob
Internal Fuse
FIGURE 1 
AtmosAir SolutionsTM
Version: MEF4I-2018-03
8-24 Watts
•
Efficiency Efficiency Level V (24 W Level IV)
•
CEC2008 & EISA 2007 Compliant
•
IT & Medical Approvals
•
Interchangeable Input Connectors
•
Output Voltages from 5 V to 24 V Available
•
Class II Construction
•
White Case Version Available
VEP Series
Input
Input Voltage
• 8 & 15W: 80-264 VAC
24 W: 80-264 VAC, derate output power
25% <90 VAC 
Input Frequency
• 47-63 Hz
Input Current
• 8 W: 0.3 A max at 90 VAC 
15 W: 0.5 A max at 90 VAC
24 W: 0.6 A max at 90 VAC
Inrush Current
• 70 A max at 230 VAC, cold start at 25 °C
Power Factor
• EN61000-3-2, class A
No Load Input Power
• <0.3 W
Output
Output Voltage
• See tables
Initial Set Accuracy
• ±5% at 50% load
Minimum Load
• No minimum load required
Start Up Delay
• 2 s typical
Start Up Rise Time
• 8 & 15 W: 100 ms typical, 
24 W: 50 ms typical
Hold Up Time
• 5 ms typical at full load and 115 VAC
Line Regulation
• ±0.5% max
Load Regulation
• ±5% max
Transient Response
• 4% max. deviation, recovery to <1% 
within 500 µs for a 50% step load change
at 0.2 A/µs
Ripple & Noise
• See tables
Overvoltage Protection • See tables
Overload Protection
• 120-280%
Short Circuit Protection • Trip and restart (hiccup mode)
Temperature 
• 0.2 %/˚C
Coefficient
General
Efficiency
• See tables
Energy Efficiency
• Level V
Level IV (24 W versions)
Isolation
• 3000 VAC Input to Output
Switching Frequency
• 8 & 15 W: 132 kHz typical,
24 W: 65 kHz typical 
MTBF
• 8 - 24 W: 250 kHrs, 36 W: 200 kHrs  
to MIL-HDBK-217F at 25°C, GB
Environmental
Operating Temperature • 0 ˚C to +40 ˚C
Cooling
• Natural convection
Operating Humidity
• 5-95% RH, non-condensing
Storage Temperature
• -25 ˚C to +70 ˚C
Shock
• Able to survive 1 m drop onto concrete on
each of 6 axes
Vibration
• 10-300 Hz, 1 g 15 mins/sweep. 30 mins for
each of 3 axes
EMC & Safety
Emissions
• EN55022, class B conducted & radiated 
Harmonic Currents 
• EN61000-3-2, class A
Voltage Flicker
• EN61000-3-3 
ESD Immunity
• EN61000-4-2, ±4 kV contact, ±8 kV air, 
Perf Criteria A
Radiated Immunity
• EN61000-4-3, 3 V/m, Perf Criteria A
EFT/Burst
• EN61000-4-4, level 2, Perf Criteria A 
Surge
• EN61000-4-5, installation class 3, 
Perf Criteria A
Conducted Immunity
• EN61000-4-6, 3 V, Perf Criteria A
Magnetic Field
• EN61000-4-8, 1 A/m, Perf Criteria A
Dips & Interruptions
• EN61000-4-11, 30% 10 ms, 60% 100 ms,
100% 5000 ms, Perf Criteria A, B, B
Safety Approvals
• 8 & 15W: IEC60601-1:2005, Corr1 & 2,
EN60601-1:2005, UL60601-1, cUL60601-1,
IEC60950-1:2005, A1+ A2, EN60950-
1:2006/A12, UL60950-1:2007
. cUL60950-1.
24W: IEC60601-1:2005, Corr1 & 2,
EN60601-1:2005, UL60601-1, CSA
C22.2.601.1S1-M90, IEC60950-1:2005,
A1, EN60950-1:2006/A12, UL60950-
1:2007
. CSA C22.2 No. 60950-1-03.
xppower.com
AC-DC
Specification
VEP08/15 
AC-DC
Notes
1. Measured at end of DC output lead using 20 MHz bandwidth and 0.1 µF ceramic capacitor in parallel with 10 µF electrolytic capacitor placed at connector terminals.
2. VEP08 models: Other voltages between 3.0 V and 18.0 V are available on request, consult sales for details. 
VEP15 models: Other voltages between 3.0 V and 24.0 V are available on request, consult sales for details.
3. A suffix denoting the type of mains plug required must be added to the part number. See below.
4. Efficiency given is the average of efficiencies measured with output loads of 25%, 50%, 75% and 100%.
5. For white case version add suffix -W. MOQ applies, contact sales for details.
6. VEP08 models: Typical trip point, VEP15 models: Maximum trip point.
Mechanical Details
Notes
1. All dimensions in inches (mm). T
olerance is ±0.04 (±1) maximum, except output cable length.
2. Weight: VEP08 - 0.18 lbs (80 g) approx., VEP15 - 0.26 lbs (120 g) approx.
3. Case material is PC Class 94 V-0
4. Output Lead: UL2468 18-24 AWG
5. Mains plugs can be ordered separately. Part numbers are: VEP PLUG UK, VEP PLUG EU, VEP PLUG CN^, VEP PLUG US or VEP PLUG AU^
VEP08: 1.06 (26.8)
VEP15: 1.20 (30.5)
VEP08: 1.67 (42.4)
VEP15: 1.81 (46.0)
VEP08: 2.83 (72.0)
VEP15: 2.95 (75.0)
UK
Add suffix ‘-UK’
EU
Add suffix ‘-EU’
China
Add suffix ‘-CN’
USA
Add suffix ‘-US’
Australia
Add suffix ‘-AU’
70.87 ± 10%
(1800 ±10%)
Output Plug: ø 5.5 x ø 2.5 x 11.0 mm Inner Positive
Models and Ratings
Output Power
Output Voltage(2)
Output Current
Ripple & Noise(1)
Overvoltage Trip(6)
Efficiency(4)
Model Number(3,5)
8.0 W
5.0 V
1.60 A
150 mV
10.0 V
73%
VEP08US05
8.0 W
9.0 V
0.88 A
200 mV
18.0 V
77%
VEP08US09
8.0 W
12.0 V
0.66 A
200 mV
20.0 V
77%
VEP08US12
8.0 W
15.0 V
0.53 A
200 mV
25.0 V
78%
VEP08US15
10.0 W
5.0 V
2.00 A
50 mV
9.0 V
75%
VEP15US05
12.6 W
9.0 V
1.40 A
100 mV
15.0 V
80%
VEP15US09
15.0 W
12.0 V
1.25 A
100 mV
20.0 V
82%
VEP15US12
15.0 W
15.0 V
0.90 A
150 mV
25.0 V
82%
VEP15US15
15.0 W
24.0 V
0.63 A
200 mV
35.0 V
83%
VEP15US24
VEP24
10 April 17
Models and Ratings
AC-DC
Output Power
Output Voltage(3)
Output Current
Ripple & Noise(1)
Overvoltage Trip(6)
Efficiency(4)
Model Number(2,5)
12.5 W
5.0 V
2.5 A
100 mV
10.0 V
73%
VEP24US05
19.8 W
9.0 V
2.2 A
100 mV
18.0 V
79%
VEP24US09
24.0 W
12.0 V
2.0 A
100 mV
20.0 V
80%
VEP24US12
24.0 W
15.0 V
1.6 A
100 mV
25.0 V
80%
VEP24US15
24.0 W
24.0 V
1.0 A
100 mV
35.0 V
82%
VEP24US24
Notes
1. Measured at end of DC output lead using 20 MHz bandwidth and 0.1 µF ceramic capacitor in parallel with 10 µF electrolytic capacitor placed at connector terminals.
2. A suffix denoting the type of mains plug required must be added to the part number. See below.
3. Other voltages between 3.0 V and 24.0 V are available on request, consult sales for details.
4. Efficiency given is the average of efficiencies measured with output loads of 25%, 50%, 75% and 100%.
5. For white case version add suffix -W. MOQ applies, contact sales for details.
6. Typical trip point.
Mechanical Details
Notes
1. All dimensions in inches (mm). T
olerance is ±0.04 (±1) maximum, except output cable length
2. Weight: 0.35 lbs (160 g) Approx
3. Case material is PC Class 94 V-0
4. Output Lead: UL2468 18-24 AWG
5. Mains plugs can be ordered separately. Part numbers are: VEP PLUG UK, VEP PLUG EU, VEP PLUG CN, VEP PLUG US or VEP PLUG AU
1.14
(29.0)
1.89
(47.9)
3.46
(88.0)
UK
Add suffix ‘-UK’
EU
Add suffix ‘-EU’
China
Add suffix ‘-CN’
USA
Add suffix ‘-US’
Australia
Add suffix ‘-AU’
59.0 ± 10%
(1500 ±10%)
Output Plug: ø 5.5 x ø 2.5 x 11.0 mm Inner Positive
"UNPT"XBSF4FOTFEHF
AtmosAware – Sensedge 
Air quality monitor made for healthy buildings
Know what is in your air, instantly and accurately:  The Sensedge offers 24/7, real-time monitoring of 
you indoor air quality.  Color-coded displays and indices of various pollutants allow for quick, at-a-glance 
readings.  
Optimize building operations 
Maximize performance of your interior’s filtration and HVAC system with easy-
to-export air quality data.  Compare and analyze historical data for healthier 
building management. 
Privacy is a priority 
The Sensedge has been carefully designed to offer maximum 
security with: 
-
End-to-end encryption
-
Industry standard SSL/TLS for transport security
-
Cloud-based authentication
-
Password-enabled ID
Designed to fit anywhere
AtmosAware Air Quality Reporting  
CO2 Sensor
Sensor type
 
Non-dispersive infrared
Accuracy 2 3
 
±3% ±50ppm
 
Resolution
 
1ppm
Range 4 
 
400-2000ppm
KM-102 Module 5  
TVOC
 
Sensor Type
 
MOS
 
Precision 6 7
 
±15%
Resolution
 
1ppb
 
Sensitivity
 
125ppb
Temperature
Range
-20 - 100͵
Accuracy
±1͵
Resolution
1͵
Relative Humidity
Range
0-99%
Accuracy
±5%
Resolution
1%
KM-100 Module 8  
PM2.5 
Sensor Type
Light scattering (350nm)
Precision 9 10
±10% (<30μg/m3: ±3μg/m3)
Resolution
1μg/m3
Range
1-1000μg/m3
Measurable particle size
0.3-2.5μm
Connection
Wi-Fi (2.4Ghz), Ethernet
Support for hidden SSIDs, CaptivePor-
tal and proxy servers
Data logging
8GB of on-board memory 
(>50,000,000 data points)
>100 years at 1 minute interval
External storage
Cloud-based, Micro-SD card, USB
Log interval
1 minute, 1 hour, 1 day
Screen
7” full colour touchscreen
Technical Specifications 1 
Operational humidity
5 to 95% RH, non-condensing
Physical size
184 x 146 x 48mm
(7.2 x 5.7 x 1.9in.)
Product weight
800g
(1.76lb)
Battery
5200mAh (5 hours with screen 
powered on, 11 hours with screen 
powered off)
Input voltage
DC - 5V
Input current
1.8A
Operational temperature 11  
0 - 50͵
Storage temperature
-20 - 50͵
AtmosSmart
PRODUCT SUBMITTAL 
APPLICATION
The AtmosAirSmart ionization system 
controller is intended to be mounted in the 
return duct or air handler of a heating, 
cooling, or ventilating system.  The unit is 
intended to monitor and control the 
AtmosAir Active Ionization systems.
Phone: 203-335-3700 (CT) / 480-629-4784 (AZ) 
Fax: 203-335-1075
www.AtmosAir.com 
418 Meadow Street, Suite 204  Fairfield, CT 06824 
-- 
2115 E. Cedar Street, Suite 6  Tempe, AZ 85281 
AtmosAir SolutionsTM
Product Description
Feedback for active ionization intensity; 
monitoring & control
Product Application
Air Handling Units; Roof top units
Control Capacity
Controls up to eight (8) AtmosAir® Ionization systems
Air-Quality Sensor 1
TVOC (total volatile organic compounds)
Air-Quality Sensor 2
Integral PM2.5 (Particulate Matter 2.5)
Humidity Sensor
Integral
Flow Sensor
Differential pressure switch
Ozone Sensor
Integral
Rated Voltage
Up to 24 Vac
Frequency (Hz)
50 - 60
Voltage range (V)
5Vac-24Vac
Power consumption (W)
14
Current
2.5A 
Output power
max. 2000 w/ 8 AtmosAir 508FC AtmosAir® Ionization systems
Regulation of output power
Algorithm based modulation
Output voltage for modules
240Vac or 110Vac
Output current for modules
.6 amp
Interface 
DB-9/ RS232 / alarm contact (multiple alarm)
Ambient temperature
-10  to +50
Protection class
0 - 99 non-condensing
Humidity 
0 - 99 non-condensing
Ingress protection rating
IP41 (DIN EN 60529)
Electrical Safety Compliance
EN 60730-1
EMC Compliance
EN 60730-1, EN 61000-6-1, EN 61000-6-3
Directives Dimension (L/H/D) 
2006/95/EC, 2004/108/EC, 2011/65/EU
Required space (L/H/D)
AA508FC (typ.) 704mm L x 273mm W x 241mm T
Weight Installation
Sensor 1.5Kg; AA508FC (typ.) 10.04 Kg
Treated air volume
Specific Calculation = (M. dot)
SPECS: 
AtmosSmart
Application
The AtmosSmart ionization system’s sensor head & 
controller, is intended to be mounted in the return duct 
or air handler of a heating, cooling, or ventilating system. 
The unit is intended to monitor and control the AtmosAir®  
Active Ionization Systems. With data visibility using Bac-Net. 
General Product Information
Product Description
Feedback for active ionization intensity; monitoring & control
Product Application
Air Handling Units; Roof top units
Control Capacity
Controls up to eight (8) AtmosAir® Ionization systems.* (Requires master control box 
*Optional) Standard unit; (1) BPI. Optional Unit; (2) BPI (Must be ordered)
Sensor Suite Full**
T
est Range
Sensor Application
Lite ‡
** Air-Quality Sensor 1 ‡
50 ~ 500 ppm
Integral  - TVOC (Total volatile organic compounds)
** Air-Quality Sensor 2
0.01 ~ 4.0 ppm
Integral  - HCHO (Formaldehyde Concentration) 
** Air-Quality Sensor 3
0.5 ~ 250 µg/m3
Integral - PM 2.5 (Particulate Matter 2.5)
** Humidity Sensor ‡
5% ~ 95% 
(%RH)
Integral
** Temperature ‡
-10°C ~ 50°C
Integral
** Ozone Sensor ‡
0.01 ~ 5.0 ppm
Integral
** Carbon Monoxide
0.25 ~ 2.5 ppm
Integral
** Carbon Dioxide ‡
100 ~ 2500 ppm
Integral
Other Sensors
Flow Sensor
Differential pressure switch* (Optional; Must be ordered separately)
Electrical Statistics
Rated 
Voltage
90VAC to 240VAC Power Supply
Frequency (Hz)
50/60
 
Voltage Range (V)
Control - 5VDC
Power Consumption (W)
12
Current (A)
2.4
Regulation of BPI Control
Algorithm-Based Modulation
Output Current for Modules
5VDC to 24VDC
Interface
Data/BMS
Product Ratings
Ambient Temp.
-10°C ~ 50°C
Protection Class
0% - 99% Non-Condensing
Humidity
0% - 99% Non-Condensing
Ingress Protection
IP41 (DIN EN 60529)
Electrical Safety Compliance
EN 60730-1
EMC Compliance
EN 60730-1, EN 61000-6-1, EN 61000-6-3
Installation Statistics
Directives Dimension (L/H/D)
2006/95/EC, 2004/108/EC, 2011/65/EU
Required Space (L/H/D)
AA508FC
(Typ.) 704mm (~27.75 in) (L) x 273mm (~10.75 in) (H) x 241mm (~9.5 in) (D)
Sensor Head Size (L/W/D)
305mm (~12 in) (L) x 127mm (~5 in) (H) x 267mm (~10.5 in) (D)
Weight Installation
Sensor 1.5Kg (~3.3 lbm);  AA508FC (Typ.) 10.04Kg (~22 lbm)
Treated Air Volume
Specific Calculation = M dot
Internet Connection
TCP/IP
PRODUCT SUBMITTAL
Specifications:
Adopted
Budget
Amended
Current Month
YTD
YTD
Budget - YTD % Used/
Organization
 Budget
Amendments
Budget
Transactions
Encumbrances
Transactions
Transactions
Rec'd
Prior Year YTD
Fund   100 - General
REVENUE
Department   00 - General Fund
8,933,569.00
.00
8,933,569.00
380,230.25
.00
6,318,852.15
2,614,716.85
71
6,130,249.88
Department   02 - Clerk of Courts
263,175.00
.00
263,175.00
13,727.68
.00
100,698.88
162,476.12
38
94,817.82
Department   04 - Criminal Justice
166,457.00
.00
166,457.00
3,574.06
.00
48,434.33
118,022.67
29
33,548.97
Department   05 - Family Court Commissioner
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   06 - Coroner
5,750.00
.00
5,750.00
337.00
.00
2,447.14
3,302.86
43
2,128.64
Department   07 - Administrator
15,000.00
.00
15,000.00
.00
.00
15,000.00
.00
100
15,214.40
Department   08 - District Attorney
28,000.00
.00
28,000.00
190.75
.00
965.20
27,034.80
3
1,132.95
Department   09 - Child Support
222,187.00
.00
222,187.00
41.10
.00
50,938.96
171,248.04
23
62,015.27
Department   10 - County Clerk
11,438.00
.00
11,438.00
91.00
.00
1,170.51
10,267.49
10
8,626.71
Department   12 - Treasurer
643,936.00
.00
643,936.00
145,809.52
.00
261,867.58
382,068.42
41
189,022.43
Department   13 - Land Records
209,000.00
.00
209,000.00
4,286.53
.00
189,907.47
19,092.53
91
181,173.09
Department   14 - Court House
500.00
.00
500.00
.00
.00
.00
500.00
0
570.00
Department   15 - Register of Deeds
175,000.00
.00
175,000.00
9,571.72
.00
51,997.43
123,002.57
30
48,654.07
Department   17 - Sheriff
447,282.00
.00
447,282.00
34,591.96
.00
173,450.33
273,831.67
39
121,201.99
Department   18 - Emergency Management
136,678.00
.00
136,678.00
16,543.00
.00
108,008.35
28,669.65
79
59,701.43
Department   19 - Veteran's Services
11,450.00
.00
11,450.00
15,000.00
.00
23,500.00
(12,050.00)
205
8,500.00
Department   20 - Health
580,832.00
132,220.00
713,052.00
70,169.00
.00
183,063.63
529,988.37
26
127,150.98
Department   22 - Fair
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   23 - Tourism
173,210.00
.00
173,210.00
6,735.83
.00
28,920.83
144,289.17
17
43,456.83
Department   25 - UW Extension
3,660.00
.00
3,660.00
.00
.00
2,423.00
1,237.00
66
2,565.52
Department   26 - Zoning
214,800.00
.00
214,800.00
14,880.45
.00
80,237.45
134,562.55
37
92,518.50
Department   28 - Land Conservation
384,529.00
81,495.00
466,024.00
6,600.00
.00
61,108.99
404,915.01
13
195,306.23
Department   31 - Information Services
44,550.00
.00
44,550.00
276.00
.00
1,380.00
43,170.00
3
12,160.00
Department   34 - Forestry
4,105,333.00
.00
4,105,333.00
329,971.43
.00
1,586,459.30
2,518,873.70
39
1,738,784.28
Department   77 - Agricultural Station
21,476.00
.00
21,476.00
.00
.00
1,476.00
20,000.00
7
.00
REVENUE TOTALS
$16,797,812.00
$213,715.00
$17,011,527.00
$1,052,627.28
$0.00
$9,292,307.53
$7,719,219.47
55%
$9,168,499.99
EXPENSE
Department   00 - General Fund
2,427,642.00
(6,627.00)
2,421,015.00
38,037.66
.00
1,529,059.71
891,955.29
63
3,040,282.35
Department   01 - County Board
99,603.00
.00
99,603.00
4,231.25
.00
23,217.29
76,385.71
23
36,387.05
Department   02 - Clerk of Courts
490,165.00
.00
490,165.00
33,707.87
.00
165,543.88
324,621.12
34
173,054.00
Department   04 - Criminal Justice
350,860.00
.00
350,860.00
15,086.79
.00
123,636.19
227,223.81
35
114,920.08
Department   05 - Family Court Commissioner
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   06 - Coroner
30,901.00
.00
30,901.00
955.93
.00
8,266.40
22,634.60
27
12,973.69
Department   07 - Administrator
289,453.00
.00
289,453.00
27,055.79
.00
130,583.94
158,869.06
45
122,490.92
Department   08 - District Attorney
186,403.00
.00
186,403.00
13,881.99
.00
68,754.20
117,648.80
37
71,501.29
Department   09 - Child Support
253,121.00
.00
253,121.00
18,589.59
.00
94,862.02
158,258.98
37
98,709.55
Department   10 - County Clerk
406,441.00
.00
406,441.00
34,812.17
.00
179,716.98
226,724.02
44
155,514.49
Department   12 - Treasurer
182,329.00
.00
182,329.00
11,776.88
.00
66,324.23
116,004.77
36
78,813.92
Department   13 - Land Records
596,373.00
.00
596,373.00
42,672.88
.00
204,974.61
391,398.39
34
206,388.95
Run by Kris Kavajecz on 06/05/2020 04:25:59 PM
Page 1 of 4
Financial Report for the Period Ended May 31, 
2020
Through 05/30/20
Prior Fiscal Year Activity Included
Summary Listing
Adopted
Budget
Amended
Current Month
YTD
YTD
Budget - YTD % Used/
Organization
 Budget
Amendments
Budget
Transactions
Encumbrances
Transactions
Transactions
Rec'd
Prior Year YTD
Fund   100 - General
EXPENSE
Department   14 - Court House
474,687.00
1,627.00
476,314.00
32,829.85
.00
161,771.68
314,542.32
34
175,161.03
Department   15 - Register of Deeds
180,572.00
.00
180,572.00
15,165.20
.00
68,736.73
111,835.27
38
69,759.08
Department   17 - Sheriff
4,925,661.00
.00
4,925,661.00
314,616.20
.00
1,746,237.53
3,179,423.47
35
1,893,014.38
Department   18 - Emergency Management
318,492.00
.00
318,492.00
16,650.91
.00
78,612.98
239,879.02
25
123,218.28
Department   19 - Veteran's Services
133,556.00
.00
133,556.00
10,089.47
.00
46,526.62
87,029.38
35
48,054.44
Department   20 - Health
1,026,407.00
132,220.00
1,158,627.00
77,087.68
.00
373,203.37
785,423.63
32
393,984.68
Department   22 - Fair
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   23 - Tourism
414,923.00
.00
414,923.00
13,678.71
.00
99,296.26
315,626.74
24
123,543.41
Department   25 - UW Extension
291,970.00
.00
291,970.00
90,940.11
.00
126,685.78
165,284.22
43
132,246.64
Department   26 - Zoning
472,976.00
.00
472,976.00
36,802.18
.00
176,997.44
295,978.56
37
180,414.75
Department   28 - Land Conservation
571,201.00
81,495.00
652,696.00
30,941.39
.00
147,645.79
505,050.21
23
166,846.55
Department   29 - Land Use Planning
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   31 - Information Services
568,812.00
5,000.00
573,812.00
37,778.13
.00
252,907.44
320,904.56
44
184,543.80
Department   34 - Forestry
2,101,014.00
.00
2,101,014.00
105,751.56
.00
501,603.86
1,599,410.14
24
514,029.25
Department   77 - Agricultural Station
4,250.00
.00
4,250.00
.00
.00
.00
4,250.00
0
50.00
EXPENSE TOTALS
$16,797,812.00
$213,715.00
$17,011,527.00
$1,023,140.19
$0.00
$6,375,164.93
$10,636,362.07
37%
$8,115,902.58
Fund   100 - General Totals
REVENUE TOTALS
16,797,812.00
213,715.00
17,011,527.00
1,052,627.28
.00
9,292,307.53
7,719,219.47
55%
9,168,499.99
EXPENSE TOTALS
16,797,812.00
213,715.00
17,011,527.00
1,023,140.19
.00
6,375,164.93
10,636,362.07
37%
8,115,902.58
Fund   100 - General Totals
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$29,487.09
$0.00
$2,917,142.60
($2,917,142.60)
$1,052,597.41
Fund   235 - Human Services
REVENUE
Department   50 - Human Services
7,373,277.00
40,000.00
7,413,277.00
491,712.51
.00
3,561,719.84
3,851,557.16
48
2,996,903.96
REVENUE TOTALS
$7,373,277.00
$40,000.00
$7,413,277.00
$491,712.51
$0.00
$3,561,719.84
$3,851,557.16
48%
$2,996,903.96
EXPENSE
Department   00 - General Fund
.00
.00
.00
(347.96)
.00
891.47
(891.47)
+++
470.73
Department   51 - Regional Crisis Initiative
118,800.00
.00
118,800.00
(3,906.80)
.00
22,665.54
96,134.46
19
24,075.78
Department   52 - AMSO
615,287.00
.00
615,287.00
51,296.23
.00
253,274.47
362,012.53
41
257,653.11
Department   53 - Family Services
3,248,996.00
.00
3,248,996.00
186,776.53
.00
624,925.76
2,624,070.24
19
866,148.23
Department   54 - Economic Support
540,987.00
.00
540,987.00
30,049.98
.00
162,953.21
378,033.79
30
171,717.11
Department   55 - Aging and Disabilities
706,017.00
.00
706,017.00
47,969.03
.00
195,918.17
510,098.83
28
180,826.97
Department   56 - GWAAR
684,022.00
40,000.00
724,022.00
34,568.09
.00
212,960.03
511,061.97
29
202,737.11
Department   58 - ADRC-Bayfield Co
(11,564.00)
.00
(11,564.00)
9,246.69
.00
39,769.43
(51,333.43)
-344
62,545.14
Department   59 - ADRC-North
1,470,732.00
.00
1,470,732.00
241,069.06
.00
383,071.40
1,087,660.60
26
162,732.92
EXPENSE TOTALS
$7,373,277.00
$40,000.00
$7,413,277.00
$596,720.85
$0.00
$1,896,429.48
$5,516,847.52
26%
$1,928,907.10
Fund   235 - Human Services Totals
REVENUE TOTALS
7,373,277.00
40,000.00
7,413,277.00
491,712.51
.00
3,561,719.84
3,851,557.16
48%
2,996,903.96
Run by Kris Kavajecz on 06/05/2020 04:25:59 PM
Page 2 of 4
Financial Report for the Period Ended May 31, 
2020
Through 05/30/20
Prior Fiscal Year Activity Included
Summary Listing
Adopted
Budget
Amended
Current Month
YTD
YTD
Budget - YTD % Used/
Organization
 Budget
Amendments
Budget
Transactions
Encumbrances
Transactions
Transactions
Rec'd
Prior Year YTD
EXPENSE TOTALS
7,373,277.00
40,000.00
7,413,277.00
596,720.85
.00
1,896,429.48
5,516,847.52
26%
1,928,907.10
Fund   235 - Human Services Totals
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
($105,008.34)
$0.00
$1,665,290.36
($1,665,290.36)
$1,067,996.86
Fund   430 - Capital Projects Fund
REVENUE
Department   00 - General Fund
67,000.00
.00
67,000.00
.00
.00
.00
67,000.00
0
.00
Department   01 - County Board
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   13 - Land Records
20,000.00
.00
20,000.00
.00
.00
.00
20,000.00
0
.00
Department   14 - Court House
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   17 - Sheriff
750.00
.00
750.00
.00
.00
.00
750.00
0
1,035.00
Department   18 - Emergency Management
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   22 - Fair
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   23 - Tourism
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   34 - Forestry
338,400.00
.00
338,400.00
.00
.00
.00
338,400.00
0
.00
Department   50 - Human Services
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   70 - Capital Projects
730,299.00
.00
730,299.00
.00
.00
730,299.00
.00
100
792,106.00
Department   71 - Highway Dept
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
REVENUE TOTALS
$1,156,449.00
$0.00
$1,156,449.00
$0.00
$0.00
$730,299.00
$426,150.00
63%
$793,141.00
EXPENSE
Department   00 - General Fund
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   01 - County Board
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
246.82
(246.82)
+++
9,416.99
Department   02 - Clerk of Courts
14,000.00
.00
14,000.00
.00
.00
.00
14,000.00
0
.00
Department   04 - Criminal Justice
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   05 - Family Court Commissioner
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   06 - Coroner
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   07 - Administrator
.00
.00
.00
9,078.26
.00
9,078.26
(9,078.26)
+++
.00
Department   08 - District Attorney
9,335.00
.00
9,335.00
999.37
.00
1,723.92
7,611.08
18
.00
Department   09 - Child Support
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   10 - County Clerk
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
199.99
Department   11 - Elections
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   12 - Treasurer
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   13 - Land Records
60,000.00
.00
60,000.00
.00
.00
.00
60,000.00
0
.00
Department   14 - Court House
69,500.00
.00
69,500.00
557.00
.00
92,154.54
(22,654.54)
133
39,643.44
Department   15 - Register of Deeds
11,400.00
.00
11,400.00
.00
.00
5,405.00
5,995.00
47
1,566.97
Department   17 - Sheriff
34,500.00
.00
34,500.00
191,140.00
.00
227,986.99
(193,486.99)
661
17,129.12
Department   18 - Emergency Management
34,900.00
.00
34,900.00
.00
.00
.00
34,900.00
0
.00
Department   19 - Veteran's Services
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   20 - Health
22,801.00
.00
22,801.00
.00
.00
.00
22,801.00
0
3.15
Department   22 - Fair
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   23 - Tourism
81,200.00
.00
81,200.00
.00
.00
825.00
80,375.00
1
2,955.00
Department   25 - UW Extension
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
546.00
Department   26 - Zoning
2,000.00
.00
2,000.00
.00
.00
.00
2,000.00
0
.00
Run by Kris Kavajecz on 06/05/2020 04:25:59 PM
Page 3 of 4
Financial Report for the Period Ended May 31, 
2020
Through 05/30/20
Prior Fiscal Year Activity Included
Summary Listing
Adopted
Budget
Amended
Current Month
YTD
YTD
Budget - YTD % Used/
Organization
 Budget
Amendments
Budget
Transactions
Encumbrances
Transactions
Transactions
Rec'd
Prior Year YTD
Fund   430 - Capital Projects Fund
EXPENSE
Department   27 - Board of Adjustment
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   28 - Land Conservation
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   29 - Land Use Planning
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   30 - Wildlife Abatement
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   31 - Information Services
144,713.00
.00
144,713.00
34,770.71
.00
59,647.76
85,065.24
41
42,393.31
Department   34 - Forestry
415,100.00
.00
415,100.00
500.00
.00
500.00
414,600.00
0
152,229.96
Department   52 - AMSO
257,000.00
.00
257,000.00
41,634.38
.00
64,761.63
192,238.37
25
.00
Department   53 - Family Services
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   54 - Economic Support
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   55 - Aging and Disabilities
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   56 - GWAAR
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   70 - Capital Projects
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   71 - Highway Dept
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
EXPENSE TOTALS
$1,156,449.00
$0.00
$1,156,449.00
$278,679.72
$0.00
$462,329.92
$694,119.08
40%
$266,083.93
Fund   430 - Capital Projects Fund Totals
REVENUE TOTALS
1,156,449.00
.00
1,156,449.00
.00
.00
730,299.00
426,150.00
63%
793,141.00
EXPENSE TOTALS
1,156,449.00
.00
1,156,449.00
278,679.72
.00
462,329.92
694,119.08
40%
266,083.93
Fund   430 - Capital Projects Fund Totals
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
($278,679.72)
$0.00
$267,969.08
($267,969.08)
$527,057.07
Fund   710 - Highway
REVENUE
Department   71 - Highway Dept
6,859,866.00
.00
6,859,866.00
15,035.30
.00
4,263,891.61
2,595,974.39
62
4,403,320.63
REVENUE TOTALS
$6,859,866.00
$0.00
$6,859,866.00
$15,035.30
$0.00
$4,263,891.61
$2,595,974.39
62%
$4,403,320.63
EXPENSE
Department   00 - General Fund
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
.00
+++
.00
Department   71 - Highway Dept
6,859,866.00
.00
6,859,866.00
340,895.05
.00
1,923,306.60
4,936,559.40
28
1,669,736.87
EXPENSE TOTALS
$6,859,866.00
$0.00
$6,859,866.00
$340,895.05
$0.00
$1,923,306.60
$4,936,559.40
28%
$1,669,736.87
Fund   710 - Highway Totals
REVENUE TOTALS
6,859,866.00
.00
6,859,866.00
15,035.30
.00
4,263,891.61
2,595,974.39
62%
4,403,320.63
EXPENSE TOTALS
6,859,866.00
.00
6,859,866.00
340,895.05
.00
1,923,306.60
4,936,559.40
28%
1,669,736.87
Fund   710 - Highway Totals
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
($325,859.75)
$0.00
$2,340,585.01
($2,340,585.01)
$2,733,583.76
Grand Totals
REVENUE TOTALS
32,187,404.00
253,715.00
32,441,119.00
1,559,375.09
.00
17,848,217.98
14,592,901.02
55%
17,361,865.58
EXPENSE TOTALS
32,187,404.00
253,715.00
32,441,119.00
2,239,435.81
.00
10,657,230.93
21,783,888.07
33%
11,980,630.48
Grand Totals
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
($680,060.72)
$0.00
$7,190,987.05
($7,190,987.05)
$5,381,235.10
Run by Kris Kavajecz on 06/05/2020 04:25:59 PM
Page 4 of 4
Financial Report for the Period Ended May 31, 
2020
Through 05/30/20
Prior Fiscal Year Activity Included
Summary Listing
Beginning
Balance
Account
1/1/2020
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Office
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
No. 2 Account
$100.00
$100.00
$100.00
$100.00
$100.00
$100.00
Bremer Checking
$594,341.62
$19,639.40
$232,995.29
$461,548.51
$511,798.49
$459,357.57
Bremer Money Market
$3,370,953.61
$3,561,706.84
$6,476,667.40
$3,082,454.68
$3,242,492.18
$2,769,205.14
Bremer Investment Trust
$1,395,578.41
$1,213,530.41
$1,104,934.02
$1,106,363.00
$953,111.07
$327,541.57
H.R.A. / Flex Benefits
$1,463,416.30
$1,579,259.09
$1,554,142.44
$1,499,898.72
$1,484,440.49
$1,224,732.64
Jail Assessment
$25,623.86
$27,202.64
$28,591.67
$30,113.09
$31,891.35
$33,249.87
# 85.21
$98,849.44
$99,003.99
$99,146.94
$99,275.91
$99,371.27
$99,425.07
Credit Card Acct. (clerk)
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
Credit Card Acct. (taxes)
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
$1.00
Co Rehab. Fund
$148,142.95
$148,602.31
$149,041.62
$149,235.25
$149,578.59
$149,659.50
L.G.I.P.
$21,242.42
$21,754.83
$21,784.55
$4,021,812.51
$4,023,697.83
$7,025,372.72
OTHER INVESTMENTS
$12,000,000.00
$12,000,000.00
$12,000,000.00
$12,000,000.00
$12,000,000.00
$10,000,000.00
N.L. Debt Service Fund 380
$8,013.57
$445,743.09
$446,117.32
$446,697.64
$447,126.71
$447,368.77
N.L. Collateral Pledge (250K)
$250,000.00
$250,394.37
$250,755.90
$251,082.09
$251,323.27
$251,459.33
N.L. Collateral Pledge (75.032K)
$75,032.00
$75,151.31
$75,259.82
$75,357.72
$75,430.10
$75,470.94
Ending Monthly Balance 
$19,452,296.18
$19,443,090.28
$22,440,538.97
$23,224,941.12
$23,271,363.35
$22,863,945.12
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
2019 Balances
$18,045,161.00
$21,832,798.83
$22,237,684.41
$21,925,528.67
$21,606,991.52
$22,128,650.41
$31,870,207.25
$21,522,039.97
$21,168,567.50
$21,412,514.44
$20,253,753.16
$19,452,296.18
2018 Balances
$20,812,570.87
$23,499,888.91
$23,755,773.98
$23,519,738.72
$23,081,242.60
$22,900,248.27
$32,008,164.17
$22,203,243.28
$21,578,713.04
$21,324,769.20
$21,175,553.33
$16,874,631.86
2017 Balances
$20,923,479.36
$24,882,039.31
$23,116,826.95
$22,990,456.96
$22,628,007.19
$23,528,937.74
$32,965,824.56
$23,697,897.80
$20,311,997.35
$19,979,973.63
$19,908,168.56
$19,187,234.41
2016 Balances
$19,614,812.17
$22,687,249.11
$23,710,009.04
$22,854,702.81
$22,938,784.63
$23,125,197.77
$32,235,685.99
$23,825,526.13
$21,521,323.85
$21,550,842.27
$21,050,046.46
$20,077,235.25
2015 Balances
$17,667,630.09
$21,186,444.09
$22,263,556.87
$21,030,287.90
$20,901,022.81
$20,768,338.22
$33,140,667.23
$20,567,555.45
$20,979,539.97
$19,538,852.72
$19,732,588.28
$19,558,422.50
2014 Balances
$15,353,101.08
$18,902,722.81
$19,639,536.71
$19,840,176.31
$18,716,226.11
$18,824,505.68
$28,878,016.44
$19,645,475.42
$19,605,134.87
$19,144,107.69
$18,337,111.23
$17,001,367.41
 
$209,000.00 Promissory Note
$11,567.46
$10,709.42
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
(I.R. Incubator Bldg-June 2003)
$200,000.00 Invest. Agreement
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
(I.R. Incubator Bldg.-June 2003)
$240,019.64 World Class Loan
$156,272.76
$155,286.77
$154,316.07
$153,256.80
$152,235.35
$151,209.72
(Bayfield- Nov. 2009)
$500,000.00 Loan to Northern
$500,000.00
$492,189.55
$484,362.11
$476,517.65
$468,656.13
$460,777.51
Lights (November 2019)
Totals
$867,840.22
$858,185.74
$838,678.18
$829,774.45
$820,891.48
$811,987.23
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
County Loans
(Short Term Loans)
-$1,650,000.00
-$1,650,000.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
TREASURER'S  REPORT  2020
End Of Month Account Balances 2020
Notes / Agreements - (Principal Balance)
