AGENDA 
City of Monona Landmarks Commission 
Monona City Hall 
5211 Schluter Road, Monona, WI 
Remote Teleconference Meeting via ZOOM 
Wednesday June 10, 2020 
4:30 PM 
 
NOTICE OF ELECTRONIC MEETING 
Due to the current state of emergency because of the COVID-19 pandemic, this meeting will be 
conducted via electronic videoconferencing/teleconferencing.   As such, it is likely that some or all 
members of, and a possible quorum, may be in attendance via electronic means and not physically 
present.  In accordance with Wisconsin law, the meeting will remain open to the public.  The public may 
still attend in person at the location stated in this agenda.  However, due to the need to maintain social 
distancing in accordance with Emergency Order #12 (Safer At Home Order) and the limited physical 
space available, the public is encouraged and requested to also attend via electronic means.  Directions to 
do so are listed at the bottom of this agenda.  Upon reasonable notice, the needs of disabled individuals 
will be accommodated through auxiliary aids or services. For additional information or to request this 
service, contact Joan Andrusz at 608-222-2525. 
 
1. Call to Order  
2. Roll Call  
3. Approval of Minutes of May 13, 2020 
4. Appearances  
5. Unfinished Business  
A. Discussion of 4123 Monona Drive Landmark Documentation 
6. New Business 
A. Review of Draft Requests for Proposals for Professional Services for National Register 
Nomination 
B. Discussion of Certified Local Government Grant Nomination Process 
C. Review of Draft Requests for Proposals for Professional Services for Springhaven 
Pagoda Roof Repair 
D. Staff Updates 
i. 
Monona Mound Marker 
7. Upcoming meetings – July 8, 2020 and August 12, 2020 
8. Adjournment  
DIRECTIONS TO ATTEND MEETING ELECTRONICALLY 
You may attend via videoconference by downloading the free Zoom program to your computer at 
https://zoom.us/download.  At the date and time of the meeting log on through the Zoom program and 
enter Meeting ID:  868 7604 8618. 
You may attend via telephone conference by calling the following phone number: 
PHONE NUMBER: 1-301-715-8592 / MEETING ID: 868 7604 8618, FOLLOWED BY # 
Please Mute Your Phone When Not Speaking To Ensure Best Possible Audio Quality. 
 
NOTE: Upon reasonable notice, the City of Monona will accommodate the needs of disabled individuals 
through auxiliary aids or services. For additional information or to request this service, contact Joan 
Andrusz at (608) 222-2525 (not a TDD telephone number), FAX: (608) 222-9225, or through the City 
Police Department TDD telephone number 441-0399. The public is notified that any final action taken at 
a previous meeting may be reconsidered pursuant to the City of Monona ordinances. A suspension of the 
rules may allow for final action to be taken on an item of New Business. It is possible that members of 
and a possible quorum of members of other governmental bodies of the municipality may be in 
attendance at the above stated meeting to gather information or speak about a subject, over which they 
have decision-making responsibility. Any governmental body at the above stated meeting will take no 
action other than the governmental body specifically referred to above in this notice. Agenda Posted 
06/04/2020 on the City Hall, Library, and Community Center bulletin boards and on the City of 
Monona’s website, mymonona.com. 
 
 
 
Draft Minutes Subject to Approval 
1 
 
MINUTES 
City of Monona 
Landmarks Commission 
Wednesday May 13, 2020 
 
Chair Schilling called the meeting of the Monona Landmarks Commission to order at 4:33 PM.  
Present:  
Chair Kristie Schilling, Ms. Branda Weix, Ms. Mary Murrell, and Ms. Rebecca 
Holmquist  
 
Absent:  
Mr. Erik Lincoln, Mr. Rick Bernstein and Ms. Anne Wellman 
 
Also Present:  Douglas Plowman, City Planner 
Approval of Minutes  
A motion by Ms. Murrell, seconded by Ms. Holmquist, for the approval of the minutes of 
March 11, 2020 carried with no corrections. 
Appearances 
There were no appearances. 
Unfinished Business 
A. Discussion and Potential Acceptance of 706 W Dean Avenue Landmark Documentation 
Planner Plowman shared that with the State Historical Society being closed due to the COVID-
19 pandemic he was unable to gather materials on the properties at 4500 and 5805 Winnequah 
Road. The materials for 706 W Dean were included in the packet for consideration and potential 
action. A request had been made of a potential honorary designation for the property given some 
concerns over the historical integrity of the property. The City Attorney has strongly advised 
against this given there isn’t a specific provision for this in the Historic Preservation Ordinance. 
 
A motion was made by Ms. Murrell, seconded by Ms. Holmquist, to accept the 
Landmark Documentation for 706 W Dean Avenue. 
 
The motion carried.  
New Business  
A. Discussion of 4123 Monona Drive – Monona Landmark Property 
The Commission requested this be the next property discussed at their March meeting. Materials 
included in the packet were those from the previous Certificate of Appropriateness application. 
Chair Schilling stated that a lot of changes seem to have occurred fairly recently. Ms. Murrell 
raised the discrepancy in year built information between the booklet and the determination of 
eligibility. The dates ranged from 1888 to 1893. The Commission asked that this be investigated, 
and suggested contacting Ann Waidelich. Ms. Murrell added that she had wondered if it was the 
oldest extant home in Monona, but that is the Nichols Farm. Ms. Weix added it may be the oldest 
lake front property. 
 
Discussion turned to if it was a historic property or historic site. Ms. Holmquist added that the 
garden and surrounding area were important to the property, especially the Norbertine’s. Planner 
Plowman added that this is listed as one parcel within the assessment data, so that may assist in 
that decision. Ms. Murrell raised that there may be Native American remains and artifacts on site, 
although it is not known. Ms. Holmquist added it’s proximate to other Mounds so she wouldn’t 
doubt it. Planner Plowman suggested possible remains could be mentioned as part of the 
Draft Minutes Subject to Approval 
2 
 
application. Ms. Weix suggested it could be added later when more information is known for 
certain.  
 
The Commission discussed the architectural significance of the property. Ms. Holmquist shared 
that architecturally what is remaining isn’t eligible, but the Norbertine’s history with the property is 
key, as is the association with Frank Allis. It was shared that there are many interior photographs 
in newspapers and online that can be included. Ms. Murrell added that this isn’t just a 
farmhouse, it was much grander than that. It was designed for entertaining. Site location and 
situation is also critical. Ms. Weix added that although the architecture has changed, it is still 
recognizable and distinctive in the area from both the street and the lake. Ms. Holmquist added 
that the original windows and doors still remain, making it recognizable to older photographs. 
Chair Schilling asked about the fireplaces shown in photographs, and consensus was that they 
still remain although they may be damaged. 
 
B. Discussion of Historic Preservation Month – Monona Walking Tour 
Planner Plowman discussed that the Commission had hoped to celebrate Historic Preservation 
Month by dedicating the Monona Mound Marker. In discussion with Chair Schilling the idea came 
to mind of a self-guided walking tour of the locally landmarked properties. There is a hand drawn 
map from 2011, as well as an interactive map on the website. The existing map is usable, and 
there will be a few design changes to enhance usability. Planner Plowman suggested this be 
included as an announcement on the website. Ms. Murrell suggested that given the distance it 
could be a walking or biking tour as May is also National Biking Month. Promotion will be 
included on the website, WVMO, as well as a press release which can be shared with the Herald 
Independent.  
 
C. Staff Updates 
i. 
Springhaven Pagoda and Stone Bridge Park 
Planner Plowman shared an update on the Stone Bridge Park with the Commission. 
Discussions continue internally regarding stormwater management at the park, and 
there are potential opportunities for improvements to be made to the Pagoda at the 
same time. He asked for direction from the Commission for next steps on the 
Pagoda. Ms. Holmquist shared that it was to be cast concrete, with as close to 
replacement as possible. Planner Plowman will draft an RFP for consideration at the 
June meeting assuming the existing scan can be used for bid purposes. 
 
ii. 
Certified Local Government Grant – Nominations to National Register 
Planner Plowman shared that the MOA was approved at the May 4th City Council 
meeting. An RFP will be prepared for consideration at the next Commission meeting. 
We have interested consultants provided by the State Historical Society, and it is 
expected that applications will be open for a month. Further discussion of the Grant 
and review criteria will take place at the next meeting.  
 
Upcoming meetings  
Upcoming meetings are scheduled for June 10, 2020 and July 8, 2020. 
Adjournment 
A motion by Ms. Holmquist, seconded by Ms. Murrell, to adjourn carried. (5:39pm) 
 
Submitted by, 
Doug Plowman, City Planner 
CITY OF MONONA  
LANDMARKS NOMINATION FORM 
Landmarks Commission 5211 Schluter Road Monona, WI 53716.  Please refer to the 
Preparation Guide for Landmark Nomination to assist in completion of this form. Submit to 
planner@ci.monona.wi.us.  
Resource Type:  
܆Landmark 
 
 
 
܆Historic District 
 
Identification of Historic Resource  
Common Name: 
 
Historic Name: 
 
Current Use: 
 
Street Address: 
 
Parcel Number(s): 
 
Legal Description: 
 
Applicant Information  
Name and Title: 
 
Organization 
Represented:
 
Address: 
 
Phone Number: 
 
Email Address: 
 
As the preparer of this document, I am signing below to signify that I believe this document is complete 
and contains true and accurate information. 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
Print Name  
 
 
 
 
Date 
San Damiano Friary
Frank Allis House
Religious Use - Currently Vacant
4123 Monona Drive
0710-093-9230-8
PART OF SW1/4 SW1/4 SEC 9 W OF HWY AND S OF LAKE EDGE
PARK ALSO A PART OF SE1/4 SE1/4 SEC 8 S OF LAKE EDGE
PARK EXC TO CITY OF MONONA IN DOC 4820040
General Historic Data 
Original Owner: 
 
Original Use: 
 
Architect/Builder/ 
Designer: 
 
Architectural 
Style: 
 
Date of 
Construction: 
 
 
Location: 
܆Moved Site          ܆Original Site 
Physical 
Condition: 
܆Excellent              ܆Good            ܆Fair          ܆Poor         ܆Deteriorated                
܆Ruins          
 
Attach a separate narrative that describes the landmark proposed for nomiation.  This narrative shall 
include the following sections: 
 
A.
Describe Present and Original Character and Features. 
 
B.
Describe the Significance to Monona and/or the Greater Region. 
 
C.
Describe the Conformance to Designation Criteria.  
 
D. List of Bibliographical References. 
 
E.
Additional Information as Needed. 
Frank Allis
Farmhouse Homestead
William D. Kimball
Dutch Colonial Revival
1893
 
4123 Monona Drive – City of Monona Landmark 
Supplemental Information 
 
A. Describe Present and Original Character and Features.  
- 
Dutch Colonial-Revival style gambrel roof with Georgian characteristics such as 
dormers, fanlights, columns and decorative pilasters. 
- 
Colonial Revival-style flat roofed porch on the east face, supported by columns and a 
centered, side-lighted front door. 
- 
The main 75’ x 30’ rectangular plan of the property is on a brick foundation, and 
originally finished with clapboards, but was covered with shingles around 1930.  
- 
Wooden, double-hung sash windows in a 12/1 configuration on the north, south and 
east faces. 
- 
A flat-roofed porch with a dentilled cornice extends across the first story on the 
west-facing façade with views towards the lake. 
- 
A home built for entertaining with a large ballroom on the third floor, later 
converted to dormitory use. 
- 
Large, half-turn wooden staircase in the main hallway. 
- 
14 rooms and 7 fireplaces demonstrate the scale of the home and its propensity to 
host guests. 
- 
Extensive property grounds with numerous mature trees screening the home from 
Monona Drive.  
- 
Significant exterior changes have been made over the years including the application 
of composition shingles, the enclosure of the front entry porches, the loss of the 
second-story rear porch’s original railing, the extension of the dining room, and the 
addition of the projecting section on the second floor facing south.  
 
B. Describe the Significance to Monona and/or the Greater Region.  
- 
The home was owned by Frank Allis, the son of Edward Allis a founder of Allis-
Chalmers Corp. 
- 
It was a part of a 600-acre assemblage with significant frontage along Lake Monona. 
o Land included many farm buildings, stables and a private race track.  
o 2 acres of this was donated in 1916 for the Frank Allis school after he passed. 
- 
Frank Allis hired well-known Milwaukee architect William D. Kimball to design the 
house. It was one of the earliest examples in Wisconsin of the Georgian Revival style.  
- 
One of the first year-round properties beyond the city limits of Madison, and the 
first lake front property in what is now the City of Monona.  
- 
Home was purchased in 1916 by former Madison Mayor Adolph Kayser. 
- 
The property was donated to the Norbertines in 1929 by the Mahoney family, and 
was used as an educational facility for the priests. 
- 
In 1975 the Norbertines gave permission for Capuchin priests to rent the house as a 
“House of Prayer”. Six friars moved into the property and the property became 
known as San Damiano.  
- 
The last Capuchin left the property in 2015, with caretakers living in the property 
intermittently. In 2019 it was listed as being vacant.  
 
C. Describe the Conformance to Designation Criteria.  
(1) Exemplifies or reflects the broad cultural, political, economic or social history of the 
nation, state or community; or 
(2) Is associated with the lives of important persons or with important events in national, 
state or local history; or 
(3) Embodies the distinguishing characteristics of an architectural type inherently valuable 
for a study of a period, style, method of construction or of indigenous materials or 
craftsmanship; or 
(4) Is representative of the notable work of a master builder, designer or architect; or 
(5) Exhibits important archaeological or anthropological significance. 
 
Originally approved as a locally designated landmark by City Council on October 15th 1979, and 
ratified by the City Council as part of Resolution No.16-1-2069 on January 19th 2016. 
 
Photographs  
 
The home shortly after it was built in 1893. Source – Wisconsin Historical Society  
 
 
 
 
 
4123 Monona Drive in 1947. Source – City of Monona Archives 
 
View from Lake Monona in 2015. Source – City of Monona 
 
 
Source – Wisconsin State Journal 
 
Eastern face of the property in 2015. Source – City of Monona 
 
 
 
Eastern face of the property in 2015. Source – City of Monona 
 
The western face of the property in February 2020. Source – City of Monona 
 
 
< City of Monona Letterhead > 
 
 
 
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS 
NOMINATIONS TO THE NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES 
IN MONONA, WISCONSIN 
June 5, 2020  
Introduction  
The City of Monona is requesting proposals for assistance in nominating previously identified 
eligible properties to the National Register of Historic Places in Monona, Dane County, 
Wisconsin. Funding for the project is from a Wisconsin Historical Society Certified Local 
Government Sub-Grant. Interested consultants are invited to submit proposals by July 10, 2020. 
Interviews and final consultant selection will be made in late July and early August with formal 
contract approval to follow. The National Register nominations shall be completed by August 
15, 2021.  
Background  
The City of Monona is a community with a population of 8,045. Monona grew quickly in the 
1950s and 1960s and was almost fully built-out by the 1980s.  Monona's housing stock includes 
over 4,000 units, of which approximately 54% are single-family detached homes.  
 
The intent of this request for proposals is to act on the Intensive Survey that was published in the 
summer of 2019. The Survey identified a total of 16 potentially eligible properties, including 
residential, institutional and commercial buildings (plus one that had already been deemed 
eligible). A copy of the Survey is available at www.mymonona.com/historicalsurvey. The intent 
is to conduct outreach to the property owners, and to prepare and submit applications for as 
many as possible with the funding that was awarded to the city by the Wisconsin Historical 
Society. The amount of the grant award is $25,000.  
Project Description  
All procedures and products shall comply with the Architecture-History Survey Manual provided 
by the Wisconsin Historical Society Division of Historic Preservation and the attached Work 
Program.  
Proposal Requirements  
Please include the following information with your proposal:  
1. 
Company name, address, phone number, and primary project contact.  
2. 
Names, titles, and responsibilities of individuals from your company that will be 
responsible for the project. Include a description of the composition of the team, listing 
backgrounds and work experience as it relates to the project.  
 
3. 
Background experience, and capabilities of your company and the project personnel.  
4. 
List of references for projects similar in scope which your firm has prepared.  
5. 
Appropriate fees to complete the proposed scope of work.  
6. 
Proposed timeline to complete the project.  
Please submit proposals by 4:00pm on July 10, 2020 with a dated cover letter to:  
Monona City Hall 
Attn: Douglas Plowman  
5211 Schluter Rd.  
Monona, WI 53716 
 
Contact Person  
Questions about the RFP or the project should be directed to Douglas Plowman, City Planner, at 
dplowman@ci.monona.wi.us or (608) 222-2525. 
 
 
MONONA WORK PROGRAM 
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT 
Project No. WI-20-10015 
Attachment A:  Work Program (As of 3/3/2020) 
 
 
The State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO), Wisconsin Historical Society, and the City of 
Monona, hereinafter called the subgrantee, agree to the following work activities and project 
conditions for the completion of 15 individual National Register of Historic Places nominations 
and related activities.  All components of the nomination must be submitted by August 15, 2021. 
 
 
1. 
The consultant shall conform to and follow all requirements and guidelines detailed in the 
manual found on the Wisconsin Historical Society website.  The "Supplementary Manual 
for Completing State Register and National Register of Historic Place Form in Wisconsin" 
is located at www.wisconsinhistory.org and search for “supplementary manual.” 
 
2. 
National Register Nominations.  The National Register of Historic Places nominations will 
be prepared according to the guidelines promulgated by the National Register and in the 
format specified by the SHPO.  The SHPO will have final approval of the scope and 
boundaries of the nominations prior to commencement of work.  The completed 
nomination is due at the SHPO by August 15, 2021. 
 
 
The following items must be submitted for each nomination by the project completion 
date. Each is more fully described in the supplementary manual. 
 
 
a. One electronic copy and one paper copy of the National Register of Historic Places 
Inventory-Nomination Form (l0-900).  The form may be found on the Wisconsin 
Historical Society website at www.wisconsinhistory.org and search for 
“supplementary manual.” 
 
b. One electronic copy and one paper copy of a 200-300 word summary of the 
importance of the property. 
 
 
    c.   The full text of the nomination and of the summary statement on compact disk. 
 
    d. Two commercially printed sets of digitally produced images and associated disk.  
Digital (TIFF) images must be produced with a digital SLR camera and the disk and 
prints must comply with the guidelines set forth by the National Park Service in the 
National Register Photographic Imaging Policy:  
http://www.nps.gov/history/nr/publications/bulletins/photopolicy/index.htm  Prints 
must be at least 4” x 6”.  Photos should be labeled on back with a pencil.  
 
MONONA WORK PROGRAM 
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT 
Project No. WI-20-10015 
Attachment A:  Work Program Page 2 
 
 
e. 
A PowerPoint presentation that fully documents the significance and appearance of 
the property for the Review Board meeting.  The PowerPoint presentation must be 
compressed to create a file of manageable size.  The presentation must be submitted 
on a CD together with the individual original uncompressed image files.  Image files 
must be in JPG format at a minimum resolution of 300 DPI and a minimum width of 
2000 pixels on the longest side.  This should result in a file size of around 7MB.  The 
individual image files must be labeled with the AHI number and descriptive detail. 
 
f. 
Original USGS quadrangle maps as needed to identify the nominated property.  The 
maps must be labeled in pencil as specified by the National Register and the SHPO 
and must include construction lines for the calculation of UTM coordinates.   
 
g. 
District maps, site plans, and/or floor plans, as needed. 
 
h. 
It is the responsibility of the consultant to provide a complete list of all current          
 property owners as listed in the land or tax records after the nomination is scheduled 
for a Review Board meeting.  Historic district nominations require three full sets of   
mailing labels submitted on Avery 5160, Avery 5161, or similar label format. 
 
i. 
One completed nomination submission checklist. 
 
j. 
An update to the Wisconsin Historic Preservation Database (WHPD) as directed in 
the subgrants manual.  New or updated records are required for all resources in the 
district whether contributing or non-contributing.  For information regarding the 
proper creation of inventory records go to www.wisconsinhistory.org and search for 
“survey manual.”  Click on “When do I need to prepare a new record” in the survey 
manual (p. 3).  The information for the nomination resources will be entered into 
WHPD by the consultant.  The consultant will be given free access to WHPD for one 
month in order to enter the nomination findings for the Monona project only.  The 
consultant must contact the SHPO in order to set up this special one month access. 
 
  
k. 
The consultant will be responsible for the presentation of the nominations to the State 
Historic Preservation Review Board.  Any corrections or additional information 
required by the State Review Board or the National Park Service shall be provided by 
the consultant.  Any costs associated with these corrections are part of this project 
budget.  
 
 
 
MONONA WORK PROGRAM 
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT 
Project No. WI-20-10015 
Attachment A:  Work Program Page 3 
 
 
3. 
Acknowledgment of Federal Assistance.  An acknowledgment of federal funding must be 
made in any publication or slide or video production resulting from this project (See 
Section 7 of the "Subgrants Manual.")  The standard acknowledgment that must be used is 
stated in the manual.  Press releases, speeches, and other dissemination of information by a 
subgrantee regarding grant-assisted projects must also acknowledge the support of the 
National Park Service and the Wisconsin Historical Society.  Future publications, 
materials, or projects that result from this grant-assisted project must acknowledge the 
federal support. 
 
 
 
