Documents that are disclosable public records required to be made available under California Government Code Section 
54957.5 (b) (1) and (2) are available to the public for inspection at no charge during business hours at our administrative 
office located at 147 Gregory Lane, Pleasant Hill, California. 
 
The Pleasant Hill Recreation & Park District will provide reasonable disability-related modification or accommodations to a 
person who requires such in order to participate in the meeting of the Board of Directors.  Please contact Susie Kubota (925) 
682-0896 at least 48 hours before the meeting. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     MISSION STATEMENT 
 In order to serve the diverse recreational needs of individuals and families and to enrich 
the quality of life for all residents, the Pleasant Hill Recreation & Park District is committed 
to providing park facilities, open space, and programs and activities for all ages.   
 
LOCATION: TELECONFERENCE  
Join meeting by PC: https://zoom.us  Meeting ID: 837-9194-4634 
 
Or by Phone 1 (669) 900-9128 Meeting ID: 837-9194-4634 
 
Board of Directors Regular Meeting 
Thursday, June 11, 2020 
7:00 P.M. 
 
ON MARCH 16, 2020, THE CONTRA COSTA COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER ORDERED 
ALL INDIVIDUALS LIVING IN THE COUNTY TO SHELTER AT THEIR PLACE OF 
RESIDENCE, WITH CERTAIN EXCEPTIONS.  IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE HEALTH 
OFFICER’S ORDER AND THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS N-29-20 (MARCH 
18, 2020) AND N-33-20 (MARCH 19, 2020) ALL BOARD  MEMBERS, STAFF, AND 
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WILL PARTICIPATE IN THIS MEETING BY 
TELECONFERENCE TO MITIGATE THE SPREAD OF COVID-19 
 
Members of the public may observe the meeting at the teleconference location 
above.  Members of the public may offer public comment by email to 
skubota@pleasanthillrec.com prior to the close of the public comment period for 
the agenda item on which they would like to comment.  Staff will share all such 
comments with the Board at the meeting (subject to the time limits applicable to 
public comment) and make them part of the record.  Alternatively, members of 
the public may offer public comment orally during the teleconference.  Members 
of the public are requested, but not required, to send an email to 
skubota@pleasanthillrec.com noting their desire to speak on a given agenda item.   
 
1. Call to Order 
 
2. Roll Call and Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Public Comment 
Five minutes may be allotted to each speaker and a maximum of twenty (20) 
minutes to each subject matter.  The public may speak regarding agenda items at 
the time the matter is taken up.  Non-agenda items can be addressed under Public 
Comment. 
Board Meeting – June 11, 2020 
Page 2 
 
 
4. Report from General Manager (Attachment A) 
 
5. Consent Calendar (Attachment B) 
a. Approve Bills to be Paid Warrants #28382 – 28423 (Exhibit 1) 
b. Approve Minutes of March 26, 2020 (Exhibit 2) 
c. Approve Resolution 2020-06-11, Ordering Even-Year Board of Directors 
Election; Consolidation of Elections; And Specifications Of The Election Order 
(Exhibit 3) 
 
6. Verbal Update from General Manager Regarding Impact of Current Health Orders on 
District Operations 
 
7. Verbal Report from Committee Chair and Opportunity to Set Meeting Dates 
a. Land and Facilities Development Committee – June 17, 4:00 p.m. 
b. Personnel Committee – TBD 
c. 
Budget & Finance Committee – June 16, 2020 at 1:00 p.m. 
d. Program Committee – TBD 
e. District/City Liaison Committee - TBD 
f. 
Ad Hoc Committee – Oak Park Boulevard – TBD 
g. Ad Hoc Committee – Board Policies - TBD 
 
8.  Board Announcements and Requests to Staff 
 
9. Adjourn 
 
 
Future Board of Directors Meetings: 
 
Thursday, June 25, 2020, 7:00 p.m. 
Thursday, July 9, 2020, 7:00 p.m. 
Thursday, July 23, 2020. 7:00 p.m. 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT A 
 
MEMORANDUM 
Date:   
June 11, 2020 
To:  
 
Board of Directors 
From:  
 
Michelle Lacy, General Manager 
Re: 
 
General Manager’s Report for June 11, 2020 
 
Below is a list of items which would be of interest to the Board of Directors. 
 
Aquatics: CPRS recently released Guidelines for Aquatics Venues and Programs and 
we have been working with municipal pool operators in Contra Costa County to adapt the 
guidelines into a county-wide plan.  These guidelines include modifications to rescues 
and care in the event lifeguard staff must make a water rescue or provide emergency 
care.  We are working to expand the CARES program to Aquatics. 
 
Financing Update: The funding for Oak Park purchase and infrastructure has been 
received and it is anticipated we will close escrow with the County on June 12. 
 
Senior Services: In May staff distributed 323 meals through our CC Café 
program.  Currently there are 6 volunteers delivering meals to 8 seniors who are 
homebound.  Meals on Wheels has a waitlist so they are sending us any participants who 
live in PH so we can get them set up with one of our volunteers to receive meals. 
 
Seniors are Zooming!  In June we have several zoom classes including: two smartphone 
workshops, Active Aging classes, Dance Choreography and Happy Hands class (helps 
with arthritis). We started our Ted Talks via zoom on June 5.  “Wit and Wisdom” 
conversation group is now meeting every Thursday on zoom, until they are able to get 
back into the building. Lastly, the Senior Board Meeting on June 2 was held via Zoom 
and every board member made it on!  
 
Senior Center members donated toilet paper, paper towels and masks that we were able 
to distribute to seniors in need. We have set-up a puzzle and book table for seniors to 
take what they need and it has been a huge hit on Wednesdays (all protocols are 
observed).  A weekly e-blast is sent out to all members with updates and new resources. 
 
Youth Services: The PHRec Cares Program launched Monday, June 1. Teen Cares at 
the Teen Center is serving 24 participants ages 9-14. Kidstop Cares at Gregory Gardens 
is serving 24 participants ages 5-10. Preschool Cares begins Monday, June 8 at the 
Community Center with 24 participants enrolled. Each program has a blend of indoor and 
outdoor activities, water play, arts & crafts, games, and free play. Participants are kept in 
stable groups of 12. Staff are performing extra cleaning and safety protocols are in place 
to reduce risk of transmitting COVID-19. The participants are so excited to be around 
other kids and are having a great time. We will be offering additional sessions of the Cares 
program for all age groups in July. 
2 
 
Off-Leash Dog Issues: While we have always had issues with park visitors not adhering 
to leash regulations in District parks the number of complaints has risen dramatically since 
the Paso Nogal Dog Park was closed due to the Shelter-in-Place Health Order. In addition 
to the increase in number of off-leash dogs within our parks visitors often do not have the 
correct information regarding reporting these types of incidents. County Animal Control is 
the enforcing agency for leash laws within the County, so in order to inform residents we 
have develop new signs to inform visitors of the leash regulations and to provide the 
contact information for enforcement.  
These signs were designed to catch the eye and inform people of potential issues and 
dangers with off-leash dogs within unimproved areas. Our creative Marketing team has 
developed this series of signs which will be placed in all of our parks.  
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT B 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
Date:   
June 11, 2020 
To:  
 
Board of Directors 
From:  
 
Michelle Lacy, General Manager 
Re: 
Consent Calendar 
 
Consent Calendar items are considered to be routine by the Board of Directors and will 
be enacted by one motion.  By approval of the Consent Calendar the staff 
recommendation will be adopted.  There will be no separate discussion on these items 
unless a Board Member or a member of the public request removal of the item from the 
Consent Calendar. 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR FOR JUNE 11, 2020 
a. Approve Bills to be Paid Warrants #28382 – 28423 (Exhibit 1) 
b. Approve Minutes of March 26, 2020 (Exhibit 2) 
c. Approve Resolution 2020-06-11, Ordering Even-Year Board of Directors Election; 
Consolidation of Elections; And Specifications Of The Election Order (Exhibit 3) 
 
 
 
Exhibit 2 
Board of Directors Regular Meeting Minutes 
March 26, 2020 
DRAFT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The March 26, 2020 Regular Meeting of the Pleasant Hill Recreation & Park District Board 
of Directors was called to order by Board Chair Ortega at 7:07 p.m. by teleconference by PC: 
https://zoom.us/j/889058985 Meeting ID 889 058 985 or by phone 1 (669) 900-9128 Meeting 
ID: 889 058 985. 
 
ROLL CALL 
Present: Sandra Bonato (arrived at 7:18 p.m.), Bobby Glover, Jennifer Ortega, Andrew Pierce, Zac 
Shess. 
   
 PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
Board Member Pierce led the Pledge of Allegiance.   
 
 PUBLIC COMMENT 
The General Manager asked each member of the public that logged in telephonically, if they had 
any public comment.  They did not have any public comment.  Board Chair Ortega announced that 
if any member of the public wanted to email staff at skubota@pleasanthillrec.com to do so, after 
checking with staff and there was no other public comment; Chair Ortega closed public comment.  
 
  REPORT FROM EX-OFFICIO SOPHIA DE VILLE, COLLEGE PARK HIGH SCHOOL 
Ex-Officio Member Sophia De Ville stated that a good majority of the students do not realize the 
effects of this pandemic and need to stay home.  De Ville reported some College Park High School 
students are doing class work at home and some don’t have access to Internet, and it is optional 
and should not negatively affect the student’s grades.  In person school is cancelled until May 1, 
2020. Board Chair Ortega thanked Sophia for her report.   
 
 CONSENT CALENDAR (Attachment A) 
a. Approve Bills to be Paid, Warrants #28175 - 28225 (Exhibit 1) 
b. Approve Minutes of February 13, 2020 and February 27, 2020 (Exhibit 2) 
 
 Motion: To Approve Consent Calendar as presented, Action: Approve, Moved by Bobby 
Glover, Seconded by Sandra Bonato. 
 
  Vote: Motion carried by unanimous roll call vote (summary: Ayes = 5). 
Ayes: Sandra Bonato, Bobby Glover, Jennifer Ortega, Andrew Pierce, Zac Shess. 
   
 
UPDATE 
FROM 
GENERAL 
MANAGER 
REGARDING 
STATUS 
OF 
DISTRICT 
OPERATIONS IN RESPONSE TO SHELTER-IN-PLACE ORDER FROM /CONTRA COSTA 
COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER (Attachment B) 
General Manager Lacy updated the Board of Directors on the Shelter-In-Place and what are 
essential services.  She stated with a global pandemic there are some services that are essential 
and some that are not, so the essential services are basic park, building and pool maintenance, 
Senior Center CC Café meal service, Board Meetings, payroll and accounting services.  She 
explained which staff are still working on site and staying within the required parameters with 
staggered times limiting the amount at a site and keeping social distancing.  She explained what 
 
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes March 26, 2019 
       2 
 
 
the full fiscal impact could be and the biggest concern keeping staff engaged.  She has attended 
webinars through CAPRI employment law consultant.  Lacy further explained emergency law and 
sick leave. She answered some of the Board Members questions and clarified some concerns.  The 
Board of Directors thanked staff and the General Manager for their work during this difficult time, 
keeping the community engaged and served the best we can.   
 
 ADOPT RESOLUTION 2020-03-26 DECLARING AND JOINING THE COUNTY OF 
CONTRA COSTA’S DECLARATION OF LOCAL EMERGENCY AND RENDERING OF CERTAIN 
EMERGENCY ORDERS (ATTACHMENT C) 
The General Manager stated the County has declared a local emergency and said Legal Counsel 
stated the District should be protected under the local emergency, but was advised to adopt a 
resolution in case there maybe an opportunity if there are expenses that may qualify for 
reimbursement through FEMA.  Some Board Members asked some questions such as what types of 
expenses could be reimbursed.  Legal Counsel, Osa Wolff, explained what types of funding may be 
recovered.  It is not clear how the funding will be distributed.  She said it is important to keep 
records and keep abreast of how the eligibility is described.  Lacy stated earlier that this will be a 
substantial financial impact for the District. 
 
 Motion: To Approve Resolution 2020-03-26, Declaring and Joining the County of Contra 
Costa’s Declaration of Local Emergency and Rendering of Certain Emergency Orders, Action: 
Approve, Moved by Sandra Bonato, Seconded by Andrew Pierce. 
 Vote: Motion carried by unanimous roll call vote (summary: Ayes = 5). 
Ayes: Sandra Bonato, Bobby Glover, Jennifer Ortega, Andrew Pierce, Zac Shess. 
   
 UPDATE REGARDING RESTRUCTURING OF BLUES AND BREWS PARTNERSHIP WITH 
PLEASANT HILL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE FOR THE 2020 EVENT (ATTACHMENT D) 
General Manager Lacy said the District is still planning on the Blues and Brews Festival and keeping 
our fingers crossed, said staff is hoping this will be the first event after this pandemic.  She asked 
Recreation Superintendent Nicole Watson to report on the planning of the event.  Watson explained 
that this event has evolved and has partnered with Pleasant Hill Chamber of Commerce and split 
the proceeds with the Chamber.  She stated there is a great relationship with the Chamber and the 
Chamber Board has expressed wanting to focus more on their Art, Jazz and Wine Festival in 
October. 
 
Watson said after meetings with the Chamber, there will no longer be a 50/50 split of the proceeds 
of the Blues and Brews Festival.  The Chamber of Commerce will be solely responsible for the wine 
booth at this event and keep the proceeds from the wine booth.  She said the wine tickets sold will 
be tracked differently than the single beer tickets.  Watson said it will not heavily impact the District 
since this is a “all hands on deck” event and the majority of staff work this event.  If the event 
needs to be postponed due to the COVID-19 situation, they would reschedule the event and the 
last resort would be to cancel the event, which they are hoping does not happen.  The Board of 
Directors thanked Nicole for her report and thinks this is a good decision and expressed their 
support to continue this event. 
 
 BOARD ANNOUNCEMENTS AND REQUESTS TO STAFF  
Shess made the following announcements/questions: 
 
He asked when the Board can expect a report on the Oak Park property.  General 
Manager Lacy stated she has a meeting with the City and County and will bring this back 
to the Board in a closed session meeting.  She has been working with Legal Counsel on a 
draft agreement of property purchase. 
 
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes March 26, 2019 
       3 
 
 
 
He expressed his appreciation to Michelle Lacy and staff operating in an environment that 
we are in and he appreciates everyone’s efforts. 
Bonato made the following announcements/questions: 
 
She asked when the Ad Hoc Committee for the Oak Park property will meet again.  Lacy 
said she will know more after tomorrow. 
 
She asked if all employees are eligible for sick leave and asked the General Manager to 
have more briefing at the next meeting.  
Glover made the following announcements/questions: 
 
He complimented staff and everyone’s efforts.  He stated communication is key and to 
keep it up for the next month or so. 
 
He asked if there is anyway to team up with Pleasant Hill Police Department on their social 
media team. 
 
He complimented Chair Ortega for an excellent job conducting the meeting tonight. 
Pierce made the following announcements/questions: 
 
He appreciates everyone stepping up to the plate in circumstances that no one is familiar 
with and he is proud to be a part of an organization that goes above and beyond in times 
like this.  He is thankful. 
 
He thanked staff for putting up the signage at parks regarding the playgrounds being 
closed. 
Ortega made the following announcements/questions: 
 
She expressed to the Board and staff that they did a good job in unchartered territory.  
She thanked staff for all their hard work. She wished everyone well and stated that we will 
get through this. 
 
She reminded the Board of Directors that the next board meeting will be on April 9, 2020.  
 
  ADJOURNMENT 
Board Chair Ortega adjourned the meeting at 8:15 p.m.   
 
 
 
_______________________________  
Michelle Lacy, Clerk of the Board 
 
Exhibit 3 
 
Board of Directors  
Resolution 
 
PLEASANT HILL RECREATION & PARK DISTRICT 
COUNTY OF CONTRA COSTA, STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
IN THE MATTER OF 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   RESOLUTION 2020-06-11 
ORDERING EVEN-YEAR BOARD OF DIRECTORS ELECTION; CONSOLIDATION OF 
ELECTIONS; AND SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER 
 
 
WHEREAS, California Elections Code requires a general district election be held in each 
district to choose a successor for each elective officer whose term will expire on the first Friday in 
December following the election to be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November in 
each even-numbered year; and  
 
 
WHEREAS, other elections may be held in whole or in part of the territory of the district and it 
is to the advantage of the district to consolidate pursuant to Elections Code Section 10400; and  
 
 
WHEREAS, Elections Code Section 10520 requires each district involved in a general election 
to reimburse the county for the actual costs incurred by the county elections official in conducting the 
election for that district; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, Elections Code Section 13307 requires that before the nominating period opens the 
district board must determine whether a charge shall be levied against each candidate submitting a 
candidate’s statement to be sent to the voters; may establish the cost; and determine whether the costs be 
paid in advance; and 
 
WHEREAS, Elections Code Section 12112 requires the elections official of the principal county 
to publish a notice of the election once in a newspaper of general circulation in the district; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED that an election be held within the territory included 
in this district on the 3rd day of November, 2020, for the purpose of electing members to the Board of 
Directors of said district in accordance with the following specifications: 
 
 
SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER 
 
 
1. 
The Election shall be held on Tuesday, the 3rd day of November 2020.  The purpose of the 
election is to choose members of the Board of Directors for the following seats: 
 
Board of Director  
Two (4) year terms 
 
 
 
 
Resolution 2020-06-11 
Page 2 
 
 
 
2. 
The Pleasant Hill Recreation & Park District has determined that the Candidate will pay for 
the Candidate’s Statement.  The Candidate’s Statement will be limited to 250 words.  As a 
condition of having the Candidate’s Statement published, the candidate shall/may pay the 
estimate cost at the time of filing.  The District hereby establishes the estimated cost for a 
candidate statement as the following: $586.80. 
 
3. 
The Pleasant Hill Recreation & Park District directs that the County Registrar of Voters of 
the principal county publish the notice of election in a newspaper of general circulation that 
is regularly circulated in the territory. 
 
4. 
The Pleasant Hill Recreation & Park District Board hereby requests and consents to the 
consolidation of this election with other elections, which may be held in whole or in part of 
the territory of the district, as provided in Elections Code 10400. 
 
5. 
The Pleasant Hill Recreation & Park District will reimburse the County for the actual cost 
incurred by the county elections official in conducting the general district election upon 
receipt of a bill stating the amount due as determined by the elections official. 
 
6. 
The Clerk of this Board is ordered to deliver copies of this Resolution, to the Registrar of 
Voters, and if applicable, to the Registrar of Voters of any other county in which the election 
is to be held, and to the Board of Supervisors. 
 
 
PASSED AND ADOPTED ON June 11, 2020, by the following vote:   
 
AYES:  
 
NOES: 
ABSENT: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Jennifer Ortega, Chair 
 
I hereby certify that the foregoing resolution was approved by the vote indicated herein above at the 
regular meeting of the Board of Directors on June 11, 2020. 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Michelle Lacy, Clerk of the Board  
 
 
