 
 
FINANCE & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE 
COUNTY BOARD ROOM 
TUESDAY, JUNE 16,  2020 
SPECIAL MEETING AGENDA 
6:15 PM 
 
1. Call to Order 
 
2. Roll Call – Chuck Nagel (chairman), Richard Hill (vch.), Russ Cotton, Bryant Kempf, Josh Davis.   
 
3.  Approval of Minutes 
 
a.  Approval of May 12, 2020  Regular Meeting 
 
4. Public Input 
 
5. Approval of Claims 
 
a.  Approval of June claims.  
 
6. New Business 
  
 
7. Unfinished Business 
     
 
8. Other 
 
9. Adjournment 
 
 
FINANCE & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE 
COUNTY BOARD ROOM 
TUESDAY, MAY 12, 2020 
MINUTES 
6:00 PM 
 
NOTE – due to Covid-19, the Finance & Economic Development Meeting was held by teleconference.  
1. Call to Order 
 
2. Roll Call –Chuck Nagel (chairman), Bryant Kempf, Josh Davis present.  Richard Hill (vch.) and Emily 
Barker are excused.  
 
3.  Approval of Minutes 
 
a.  Approval of April 14, 2020 Regular Meeting Minutes 
Motion to approve April 14 regular minutes made by Kempf, seconded by Davis.  Motion passed.  
 
 
b.  Approval of April 17, 2020 Special Meeting Minutes 
Motion to approve April 17 special meeting minutes made by Davis, seconded by Kempf.  Motion 
passed.  
 
4. Public Input 
 
Jodi Goff stated that the taxes have been rolled out, and the correction of errors can be entered.  There 
were a few tax bills that had to be corrected and that has been done.  Because of the quadrennial year, 
they were behind, but are now on track.  They are tracking their phone calls.    
 
5. Approval of Claims 
 
Motion to approve May claims made by Kempf, seconded by Davis.  Motion passed.  
 
6. Treasurers Report 
 
The treasurer’s report was presented.  The committee had no questions.  
 
7.  Budget 
a.    IT Computer Equipment Line Item 
 
Individual departments were asked several years ago to remove their computer equipment line and 
put it all into one fund.  It was asked how that line item is being used.  We currently have put $50,000 
in that line item for purchase of computer equipment – laptops, switches, cable, computers, etc.  It 
was discussed how we want to handle this in the future.  The department heads present were asked 
their preference.  They would like to continue with the way it is.  It was felt that if each department 
budgeted for their own computer needs, the amount budgeted would be inflated to make sure they 
covered costs.  We have been estimating the number for this line item to budget for.  We will ask the 
department heads and Heart to estimate the needs for next year for next year’s budget. While we  
cannot foresee all problems we may encounter, we hope to get a more accurate number for budgeting 
purposes.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
FINANCE & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE 
COUNTY BOARD ROOM 
TUESDAY, MAY 12, 2020 
MINUTES 
6:00 PM 
 
8. New Business 
 
  
b.   Opening and award of Grant Bids for Remodeling Projects 
 
We had one response to the second RFP- Kenyon and Associates.  Their bid is more in line with what 
had been projected.  In order for them to do the work they have to be registered in SAM.  At this 
point in time it does not look like they are registered, however, there is a backlog with SAM at this 
time.  Motion to award the contract for remodeling to Kenyon and Associates for $18,020.00 
contingent on them getting registered in SAM made by Davis, seconded by Kempf.  Motion passed.   
Mr. Cummings will reach out to Kenyon regarding the SAM issue and discussion on the scope of 
work.   
 
c.   Approval of Midwest Engineering Contract for RLF Grant Projects (sidewalks) 
 
The State’s Attorney has reviewed the contract with Midwest and has one change that he 
recommends needs to be made.  The contract states that if payment is not received within 30 days, 
interest will be applied.  With our billing/payment system we need to extend that to 45 days.  Motion 
to approve Midwest Engineering Contract for the grant sidewalk projects, with a change made from 
30 days to 45 days for payment made by Kempf, seconded by Davis.  Motion passed.  
 
9. Unfinished Business 
     
 
10. Other 
 
A committee member has been receiving phone calls from citizens asking how the county employees can 
be off work due to Covid-19 and still receiving pay while they are struggling.  The department heads 
present stated that their offices were back to normal working conditions.   
 
11. Executive Session 
 
12. Any Action Coming Out of Executive Session 
 
13. Adjournment 
Motion to adjourn made by Davis, seconded by Kempf.  Motion passed.  
 
Submitted by:  Deb Breyman  
 
 
 
___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chuck Nagel, Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finance Committee 
