Town of Round Mountain is an Equal Opportunity Employer 
ROUND MOUNTAIN TOWN BOARD 
MEETING AGENDA 
DONALD L. SIMPSON COMMUNITY CENTER  
650 CIVIC DRIVE, HADLEY SUBDIVISION 
ROUND MOUNTAIN, NEVADA  
TUESDAY, JUNE 9, 2020 – 4:30 P.M. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the State of Nevada Governor’s Guidance for Phase 2 Reopening of the Nevada United: Roadmap to Recovery, the Round 
Mountain Town Board will hold public meetings with no more than 50 people in total while continuing to follow social distancing and 
the Roadmap to Recovery to slow the spread of COVID-19. Board members, staff, members of the public and members of the press are 
included in the 50-person count. Public attendance will be on a first-come, first-served basis. Temperature screenings will be conducted 
prior to entering the meeting. Nye County’s vulnerable population, those sheltering in place or members of in excess of the gathering 
limit of 50 people can participate by calling 1-480-660-5349 and entering access code 556906. Please provide your first and last name 
when prompted. If you get an error message regarding call capacity, please hang up, wait a few moments and try again. The Chair of 
the Town Board Chairman will open public comment periods by announcement. Commenters must press 5 * on their telephone keypads 
to notify Administration they wish to speak. Commenters will be called upon by name. 
 
In accordance with Federal civil rights law and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) civil rights regulations and policies, the USDA, its Agencies, 
offices, and employees, and institutions participating in or administering USDA programs are prohibited from discriminating based on race, color, 
national origin, religion, sex, gender identity (including gender expression), sexual orientation, disability, age, marital status, family/parental status, 
income derived from a public assistance program, political beliefs, or reprisal or retaliation for prior civil rights activity, in any program or activity 
conducted or funded by USDA (not all bases apply to all programs). Remedies and complaint filing deadlines vary by program or incident. Persons 
with disabilities who require alternative means of communication for program information (e.g., Braille, large print, audiotape, American Sign 
Language, etc.) should contact the responsible Agency or USDA's TARGET Center at (202) 720-2600 (voice and TTY) or contact USDA through the 
Federal Relay Service at (800) 877-8339. Additionally, program information may be made available in languages other than English. To file a program 
discrimination complaint, complete the USDA Program Discrimination Complaint Form, AD-3027, found online at How to File a Program 
Discrimination Complaint and at any USDA office or write a letter addressed to USDA and provide in the letter all of the information requested in the 
form. To request a copy of the complaint form, call (866) 632-9992. Submit your completed form or letter to USDA by: (1) mail: U.S. Department of 
Agriculture, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, D.C. 20250-9410; (2) fax: (202) 690-  
7442; or (3) email: program.intake@usda.gov. 
 
 
 
Pursuant to NRS 241.020, the Agenda for the Board meeting has been posted at the following locations: Round Mountain Town Hall, 100 
Hadley Circle, Hadley Subdivision, Round Mountain, NV; U. S. Post Office, 83 Hadley Circle, Hadley Subdivision, Round Mountain, NV;  
Donald L. Simpson Community Center, 650 Civic Drive, Hadley Subdivision, Round Mountain, NV; Round Mountain Fire House, Round 
Mountain, NV; Nevada Public Notice Website https://notice.nv.gov; Town of Round Mountain Website https://townofroundmountain.com 
 
Support documentation for the items on the agenda, provided to the Round Mountain Town Board is available to members of the public 
by writing to rmtownadmin@gmail.com or by calling (775) 377-2508.  
 
GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT can be made by calling 1-480-660-5349 and entering access code 556906 during the Board 
Meeting on June 9, 2020, will be for all matters, both on and off the agenda, and be limited to three minutes per person. 
Additionally, public comment of three minutes per person may be heard during individual action items. The Board reserves the right to 
reduce the time or limit the total time allowed for public comment. The Board may prohibit comment if the content of the comments is 
a topic that is not relevant to, or within the authority of, the Board, or if the content of the comments is willfully disruptive of the meeting 
by being irrelevant, repetitious, slanderous, offensive, inflammatory, irrational or amounting to personal attacks or interfering with the 
rights of other speakers. Persons are invited to submit comments in writing on the agenda items and/or attend and make comments on 
that item at the Board meeting.   
 
NOTE:  Below is an agenda of all items scheduled to be considered.  All items are approximate except for bid openings, public hearings, and any other 
items agendized at a specific time.  Items on the agenda without a time designation may be taken out of order.  The Board may combine two or more 
agenda items for consideration.  The Board may remove an item from the agenda or delay discussion relating to an item on the agenda at any time. 
 
Action may be taken to those items denoted (For Possible Action). 
 
ITEM#  
SUBJECT 
 
Special Note: Any member of the public who is disabled and requires accommodation or assistance at this meeting is requested to notify 
the Round Mountain Town Hall in writing or call (775) 377-2508 three (3) business days prior to the meeting. 
 
1. Call meeting to order/roll call. 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance.  
Town of Round Mountain is an Equal Opportunity Employer 
 
3. GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT. (Three-minute time limit per person.) No action will be taken by the Board until 
specifically included on an agenda as an action item. (FIRST) 
4. Approval of the June 9, 2020 agenda. (For possible action) 
 
5. Approval of the May 26, 2020 meeting minutes. (For possible action) 
 
6. Approval of Public Safety Sales Tax Spending Plan for Round Mountain Fire Department for fiscal year 2019-
2020. (For possible action) 
7. Discussion, deliberation, and possible decision on the reopening the the Ingvart Christensen Swimming Pool for 
summer season of 2020. (For possible action) 
8. Discussion, deliberation, and possible decision to A) cancel or B) continue with and develop safety procedures 
and protocols for the July 4, 2020 fireworks show. (For possible action) 
9. Discussion, deliberation, and possible decision to A) cancel or B) continue with, develop safety procedures and 
protocols, and designate route for the July 4, 2020 parade. (For possible action) 
10. Discussion, deliberation, and possible decision to approve annual insurance renewal proposal from Nevada Public 
Agency Insurance Pool – A and H Insurance and approval for payment from fiscal year 2020-2021. (For possible 
action) 
11. Discussion, deliberation, and possible decision to approve, amend and approve draft resolution to return fuel tax 
monies to Nye County held in Town of Round Mountain’s General Fund. (For possible action) 
 
12. Correspondence, awards, department updates, and announcements. (Discussion only) 
 
13. Review and approve invoices for the Town of Round Mountain. (For possible action) 
 
14. GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT. (Three-minute time limit per person.) No action will be taken by the Board until 
specifically included on an agenda as an action item. (SECOND) 
 
15. Adjourn meeting.  
 
 
 
Pursuant to the State of Nevada Governor’s Guidance for Phase 2 Reopening of the 
Nevada United: Roadmap to Recovery, the Round Mountain Town Board will hold public 
meetings with no more than 50 people in total while continuing to follow social distancing 
and the Roadmap to Recovery to slow the spread of COVID-19. Board members, staff, 
members of the public and, members of the press are included in the 50-person count. 
Public attendance will be on a first-come, first-served basis. Temperature screenings will 
be conducted prior to entering the meeting. 
 
Nye County’s vulnerable population, those sheltering in place or members of the public in 
excess of the gathering limit of 50 people can participate by calling 1-480-660-5349 and 
entering access code 556906. 
 
Please provide your first and last name when prompted. 
Town of Round Mountain is an Equal Opportunity Employer 
 
If you get an error message regarding call capacity, please hang up, wait a few moments and try again. 
 
The Town Board Chairman will open public comment periods by announcement. 
 
Commenters must press 5 * on the telephone keypads to notify administrators they wish to speak.  Commenters 
will be called upon by name. 
