 
 
 
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS 
AGENDA 
Virtual Meeting via Zoom: June 10, 2020 
For Video Link go to https://www.sharonville.org/calendar.aspx  
Live Session starts at 6:30 pm 
 
1. 
Call to Order 
 
2. 
Roll Call 
 
3. 
Approval of Meeting Minutes Written Summary and Audio Recording 
 
a) May 13, 2020 
 
4. 
Old Business  
 
None 
 
5. 
New Business 
 
a) Variance request of 22 ft to install a non-privacy fence, on the side yard of 1484 
Circlefield Ct, within the front yard of Fawnvista Lane, 8 ft away from the sidewalk – 
Single Family Residential (R1-B) Zoning District –Jesse Haggard - S.C.O 1125.10. 
 
6. 
Discussion 
 
a) July 8, 2020 Compass Point Planning will be presenting the Sharonville 2030 
Comprehensive Plan to Planning Commission. The draft is available online for you to 
review: https://www.sharonville2030.com/  
 
7. 
Adjourn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STAFF SUMMARY 
 
For the Board of Zoning Appeals Meeting of June 10, 2020 
To:  
     
Board of Zoning Appeals  
From:      
Sarah Dircks, City Planner (sdircks@cityofsharonville.com) 
Subject:  
Variance request of 22 ft to install a non-privacy fence, on the side yard of 1484 
Circlefield Ct, within the front yard of Fawnvista Lane, 8 ft away from the sidewalk 
– Single Family Residential (R1-B) Zoning District – Jesse Haggard - S.C.O 
1125.10. 
Date: 
Thursday, May 28, 2020 
 
I. 
Applicant Request: 
 
The applicant is requesting a 22 ft variance to install a front yard fence, on the side yard of a 
corner lot property. The proposed fence would be 8 ft away from the sidewalk on Fawnvista 
Lane and setback behind the front of the house along Circlefield Court.   
 
II. 
Code Section 
 
Upon review of the applicant’s request, submitted May 20, 2020, the application was denied 
because the proposed fenced-in area violated the setback requirements outlined in City’s 
Codified Ordinance 1125.10. 
 
S.C.O 1125.10(a) states that “Fences, walls and hedges shall not be permitted along a side lot 
line or front lot line in the front yard.” Corner lot properties have two front yards; property 
owners are permitted to fence in one of their side yards and their rear yard. 
 
III. 
Summary: 
 
On May 20, 2020, the applicant, Jesse Haggard, submitted a variance request from Section 
1125.10 to fence in his side yard which is in the front yard of Fawnvista Lane. The proposed 
fence would be a non-privacy fence installed 8 ft away from the sidewalk to allow some front 
yard open space along Fawnvista Lane. The applicant has submitted the attached letter 
explaining his request along with detailed images with his rationale for seeking a variance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicant Letter: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Requested Fence Type (Submitted by Applicant) 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Google Street View of Property 
 
Along Fawnvista Lane 
 
 
Along Circlefield Ct 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All neighbors within 100 feet of the property will be notified prior to the meeting. 
A link to attend or listen to the meeting will be publicly available online. 
 
 
IV. 
Staff Recommendation/ Considerations: 
 
Upon review of the application and the applicant’s rationale for granting a variance, staff finds 
that granting a variance would: 
✓ Relieve hardship and preserve the applicant’s right to the reasonable and legitimate use 
of his property due to the sitting water in the permitted fenced in yard area. 
✓ The placement of the house on the property reduces the area considered “side yard”, 
limiting the permitted fenced-in area to the rear yard.  
 
Staff also finds that: 
✓ The applicant’s lot or property is not unique within the City of Sharonville. The City’s 
zoning is specifically written so all corner lot properties are subject to the two front yard 
requirements. 
 
The applicant will be reminded that a variance is not a substitution for a fence permit, and if 
approved they will still need to file for a fence permit. If the Board is considering approving this 
variance request, staff recommends the following considerations: 
1. 
All improvements and documents reviewed as part of this variance approval must be 
installed and maintained in good repair and replaced as necessary to remain in 
compliance with the approved variance. 
