Due to the continued State of Emergency resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
Port of Port Angeles is taking measures to protect staff from the spread of the virus 
including closing our offices to the public. Effective immediately open public commission
meetings will be held virtually through ZOOM Cloud Meetings. Please see the following 
for online meeting instructions. For members of the public who do not have internet 
access and wish to listen to the meeting, you may call in on any phone.  
Online Meeting Instructions:
If you are new to ZOOM Cloud Meetings, you can watch this 1-minute YouTube video on
how to join a meeting: https://tinyurl.com/uz9doez For an optimum user experience, 
we encourage you to use a desktop/laptop/tablet. When prompted, select “Use Internet
Audio.”
Please click the link below to join the webinar:
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/89395078045
Webinar Meeting ID: 89395078045
If you access the meeting via your computer/laptop/tablet/smartphone (using the Zoom
app on a phone), you can watch and listen through your 
device’s speakers.  Should you wish to speak during the public comment period, and 
have not yet sent in comments, click “Participants” at the bottom of your screen, then 
click “Raise Hand.” (Note: If you are using an iPad, touch your screen to bring up the 
menu. Click the three dots that says “More” in the upper right-hand corner. Then click 
“Raise Hand.") Comments will be heard in the order in which they are received, or you 
can type in your comment and it will be read aloud by the meeting Host. 
Call-in Meeting Instructions:
Call-in using the number (253) 215 8782. You will be prompted to enter the 
Webinar Meeting ID: 89395078045
Please be aware that calling in to the meeting will only allow you to listen, it will not 
allow you to participate or speak. If you have a question or comment for the 
Commission, please submit it by 8:00 am on Tuesday, June 9, to the email address 
braedib@portofpa.com or calling (360) 461-9515.
