 
Page 1 of 5 
 
 
 
NOTICE OF MEETING  
VILLAGE OF FOX POINT 
VILLAGE BOARD MEETING 
 
SCHWEMER HALL – MUNICIPAL BUILDING 
TUESDAY 
7200 N. SANTA MONICA BLVD 
JUNE 9, 2020 
FOX POINT, WI 53217 
 7:00 P.M. 
 
NOTE: THE VILLAGE BOARD WILL BE MEETING VIA TELEPHONIC AND VIDEO 
CONFERENCING. THERE WILL BE A CHAIRS SOCIALLY DISTANCED IN THE BOARD 
ROOM. CITIZEN COMMENT HAS BEEN REMOVED AS AN AGENDA ITEM DUE TO THE 
VIRUS (FOR THIS REASON ONLY) AND WILL RETURN. HOWEVER, THERE MAY BE 
LIMITED OPPORUNITY FOR CITIZEN COMMENT AT THE DISCRETION OF THE 
CHAIR.  CITIZENS ARE ENCOURAGED TO SUBMIT ANY COMMENTS IN WRITING IN 
ADVANCE OF THE MEETING TO THE VILLAGE MANAGER AT 
sbotcher@villageoffoxpoint.com.   
 
 
Zoom Participant Information 
 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/86700562498 
 
Dial: (312) 626-6799 
 
Meeting ID: 867 0056 2498 
 
 
AGENDA 
1. Roll Call 
 
2. Committee Reports 
 
a. Plan Commission 
 
1. The Village Board will receive a report regarding the Plan Commission’s review and 
recommendation of the Fox Point Lutheran Church’s application for modifications to 
their previously approved site plan, floor plans, proposed addition and parking lot 
changes per Section 745-20 B. (2) of the Village code. 
 
2. The Village Board will receive a report regarding the Plan Commission’s review and 
recommendation concerning the proposed installation of an art sculpture, entitled Little 
Dancer, Aged Fourteen by Richard Edelman proposed to be located on Village Property 
either at N. Lake Drive and N. Bell Road (southwest corner) or N. Lake Drive and E. 
Bradley Road (southwest corner), in the Village of Fox Point, per Section 745-20 B.(2) of 
the Village Code. 
 
3. Public Hearing 
 
 
Page 2 of 5 
 
a. Artwork loan and exhibition of sculpture concerning the artwork entitled “Little 
Dancer, Aged Fourteen, offered for donation to the Village by the artist, Richard 
Edelman 
 
As required, the Village Board will hear comments and input regarding the artwork loan and 
exhibition by Richard Edelman of sculpture titled Little Dancer, Aged Fourteen on village 
property either at N. Lake Drive and N. Bell Road (southwest corner) or N. Lake Drive and 
E. Bradley Road (southwest corner), as required by Village Code Section 745-20 B. (2). 
 
NOTE: GIVEN THE PLAN COMMISSION ACTION OF JUNE 1, 2020, IT IS EXPECTED 
THAT THIS HEARING WILL BE POSTPONED UNTIL THE AUGUST 2020 VILLAGE 
BOARD MEETING. 
 
4. Consent Agenda – All items listed under the Consent Agenda will be approved in one motion 
without discussion unless any Board member requests that the item be removed for individual 
discussion and possible action.  Any item(s) so removed shall be considered individually prior 
to consideration of any New Business agenda items in the same order in which they were 
originally listed in the Consent Agenda. 
 
a. Approve the minutes of the May 12, 2020 Village Board meeting. 
  
b. Grant the renewals for two “Class A” Beer and Intoxicating liquor licenses and renewals for 
4 “Class B” Beer and Intoxicating Liquor licenses, per the Village Clerk/Treasurer’s memo 
dated May 27, 2020, subject to any conditions as noted.  
 
c. Grant the Cigarette and Tobacco Product Retail license to the establishment Walgreen Co, 
d/b/a, Walgreens #03125, located at 8615 North Port Washington Road-agent Tammy 
Marie Kachelmeier per the Village Clerk/Treasurer’s memo dated May 27, 2020 and subject 
to any conditions as noted.  
 
d. Approve the Change Order of Miller Engineers and Scientists in the amount of $6,200 for 
additional evaluation of the shoreline along North Beach Drive and authorize the Village 
President and Village Clerk/Treasurer to sign the change order per the Director of Public 
Works’ memorandum dated June 2, 2020. 
 
e. Accept the bid of Bark River Tree and Landscape, Inc. in an amount not to exceed $20,000 
for the removal of diseased elm trees and authorize the Village President and Village 
Clerk/Treasurer to sign the contract per the Village Forester’s memorandum dated May 28, 
2020. 
 
f. Approve Change Order No. 1 from Kapur & Associates for additional design and 
investigative activities associated with the Barnett Lane storm water improvement project 
and authorize the Village President and Village Clerk/Treasurer to sign the change order 
per the Director of Public Works’ memorandum dated June 2, 2020. 
 
g. Approve the Agreement from Short Elliott Hendrickson in an amount not to exceed $95,188 
for the evaluation of the water main along Lake Drive and authorize the Village President 
and Village Clerk/Treasurer to sign the agreement per the Director of Public Works’ 
memorandum dated June 2, 2020. 
 
h. Adopt a Resolution Approving of and Authorizing Submittal of the Compliance Maintenance 
Annual Report (CMAR) to the Department of Natural Resources for the 2019 Sanitary 
Sewer Activities. 
 
Page 3 of 5 
 
 
i. Schedule a Public Hearing for the July 14, 2020 regular Board meeting to receive 
comments and input on the proposed 2021 Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) 
program project list immediately following “Persons desiring to be heard” per the Director of 
Public Works’ memorandum dated June 2, 2020. 
 
j. Confirm President Frazer’s list of appointments to Building Board. 
 
k. Approve payment of the bills in the amount of $545,921.78 for the period May 1, 2020 
through May 31, 2020 per the report submitted by the Village Manager.  
 
5. Unfinished Business 
 
a. Comprehensive Plan Special Committee Report 
 
The Village Board will receive a report regarding the Comprehensive Plan Special 
Committee from Assistant Village Manager Michael Pedersen. 
 
b. Consideration of Fox Point Lutheran Church  
 
The Village Board will discuss and may act on a request by the Fox Point Lutheran Church 
to approve a reduction in their previously approved proposed modifications, subsequent to 
Plan Commission recommendation of June 1, 2020. 
 
6. New Business 
 
a. Resolution of Appreciation – Del Wilson 
 
The Village Board will discuss and may act on a Resolution of Appreciation for Building 
Board Member Del Wilson. 
 
b. Resolution of Appreciation – Christel Maas 
 
The Village Board will discuss and may act on a Resolution of Appreciation for Historic 
Preservation Commission Member Christel Maas. 
 
c. Resolution of Appreciation – Michael A. West 
 
The Village Board will discuss and may act on a Resolution of Appreciation for Building 
Board member Michael A. West. 
 
d. Resolution of Appreciation – Donald Zien 
 
The Village Board will discuss and may act on a Resolution of Appreciation for Board of 
Appeals Chair and Plan Commission member Donald Zien. 
 
e. Presentation by Glendale Administrator Rachel Safstrom concerning North Shore 
Library alternative site 
 
The Village Board will receive a presentation from Glendale Administrator Rachel Safstrom 
concerning the idea of considering a new North Shore Library site at 7545 N Port 
Washington Road. 
 
 
Page 4 of 5 
 
f. Ordinance to Repeal and Re-create Chapter 770, Electrical Standards  
 
The Village Board will discuss and may act on an Ordinance to repeal and re-create 
Chapter 770 of the Village of Fox Point Village Code concerning electrical standards. 
 
g. Ordinance to Create Section 19-32 D. Entitled “Remote Meetings” Related to Remote 
Meetings of Village Boards, Commissions and Committees 
 
The Village Board will discuss and may act on Ordinance to create Section 19-32 D. entitled 
“Remote Meetings” of the Village of Fox Point Village Code related to remote meetings of 
Village Boards, Commissions and Committees. 
 
h. Ordinance regarding the Bylaws of the Village Board of Village of Fox Point to Allow 
Alternative Regular Meeting Dates 
 
The Village Board will discuss and may act on Ordinance regarding the Bylaws of the 
Village Board of the Village of Fox Point to Allow Alternative Regular Meeting Dates. 
 
i. Discussion and possible action regarding absentee ballot marketing and report on 
Wisconsin Election Commission (WEC) updates 
 
The Village Board will discuss and may act on Village of Fox Point absentee voting 
marketing and will be given a report on WEC updates per the Village Clerk’s memorandum 
dated June 2, 2020, consistent with Trustee Sumner’s request. 
 
j. Review of 2021-2025 Capital Plan 
 
The Village Manager and Staff will review the Village’s 2021-2025, five-year, long-range 
Capital Plan and the Board may move to accept. 
 
k. Discussion and possible action regarding Green Tree Road Trail 
 
The Village Board will discuss and may act on the matter of reconstructing the Green Tree 
Road Trail, as requested by Trustee Kravit. 
 
7. Future Agenda Items 
 
The Village Board will act on any Trustee requests to place additional matters on an upcoming 
agenda, without discussion. 
 
8. Announcements 
The following individuals will be given the opportunity to make announcements at the meeting in 
regard to (i) actions taken since the previous Village Board meeting on behalf of the Village, (ii) 
future Village activities and (iii) communications received from citizens.  These matters will not be 
discussed or acted on, and Board members shall not comment on matters announced by others.  
Referrals may be made to committees and/or individuals. 
 
a. Village President Frazer 
b. Trustee Fonstad 
c. Trustee Symchych 
d. Trustee Sumner 
e. Trustee Tirado 
f. Trustee Kravit 
 
Page 5 of 5 
 
g. Trustee Ollman 
h. Village Manager Scott Botcher 
 
9.  Closed Session 
 
It is anticipated the Village Board will convene into closed session for the following reason(s): 
 
a. Pursuant to Wisconsin Statutes Section 19.85(1)(e) to Deliberate or negotiate the 
purchasing of public properties, the investing of public funds, or conducting other specified 
public business, whenever competitive or bargaining reasons require a closed session: 
Specifically, to review and discuss the potential acquisition of a property located at 7545 
North Port Washington Road for use as a North Shore Library.  Participating in the closed 
session will be the Village Board, Village Manager, Assistant Village Manager, Library 
Board member Rindt, Village Clerk, and Village Attorney. 
 
b. Pursuant to Wisconsin Statutes Section 19.85(1)(g) to confer with legal counsel for 
the governmental body who is rendering oral or written advice concerning strategy to be 
adopted by the body with respect to litigation in which it is or is likely to become involved. 
Specifically, to review and discuss the impacts on the Village of Fox Point of a certified 
survey map recorded in the City of Glendale for property located at 6300 North Port 
Washington Road that is being developed for Landmark Credit Union, including an existing 
Village easement for a 16 inch water main and rights granted for such water main, and 
available legal options.  Participating in the closed session will be the Village Board, Village 
Manager, Assistant Village Manager, Village Director of Public Works, Village Clerk, and 
Village Attorney. 
 
10. 
Reconvene and Possible Action on Closed Session Items 
 
The Village Board will reconvene into open session and may take action by duly adopted 
motion or resolution on the above described matters which were considered in closed 
session. 
 
11. 
Adjourn 
 
NEXT REGULAR VILLAGE BOARD MEETING:  JULY 14, 2020 
 
7:00 P.M. 
 
 
PLEASE NOTE:   Upon reasonable notice, efforts will be made to accommodate the needs of disabled individuals through sign language 
interpreters or other auxiliary aids.  For additional information or to request these services, contact the Village Clerk at (414) 351-8900.  
"Persons requiring an interpreter or other assistance should contact the Village Clerk’s office 72 hours prior to the meeting. Notice is hereby 
given that a majority any other board, commission or committee may be present at the meeting to gather information about a subject in which 
they are interested. This constitutes a meeting of any other board, commission or committee pursuant to State ex rel. Badke v. Greendale 
Village Bd., 173 Wis. 2d 553, 494 2d 408 (1993), and must be noticed as such, although said boards, commissions or committees will not take 
any formal action at this meeting." 
