 
 
 
 
 
AGENDA 
 
 
 
 
 
5:00 P.M. Closed Session 
Wednesday, June 10, 2020 
 
 
 
SPECIAL MEETING 
CITY COUNCIL, AIRPORT COMMISSION,  
MARINA ABRAMS B NON-PROFIT CORPORATION, PRESTON PARK SUSTAINABLE 
COMMUNITY NON-PROFIT CORPORATION, SUCCESSOR AGENCY OF THE FORMER 
MARINA REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY AND MARINA GROUNDWATER 
SUSTAINABILITY AGENCY 
 
Council Chambers 
211 Hillcrest Avenue 
Marina, California 
 
Zoom Meeting URL: https://zoom.us/j/730251556 
Zoom Meeting Telephone Only Participation: 1-669-900-9128 - Webinar ID: 730 251 556 
 
In response to Governor Newsom’s Executive Order N.29-20 and City Council Resolution 2020-29   
ratifying the Proclamation of a Local Emergency by the City Manager/Director of Emergency Services 
related to the COVID-19 (coronavirus) pandemic, public participation in the City of Marina City 
Council and other public meetings shall be electronic only  and without a physical location for public 
participation, until further notice in compliance with California state guidelines on social distancing. 
This meeting is being broadcast “live” on Access Media Productions (AMP) Community Television 
Cable 25 and on the City of Marina Channel and on the internet at https://accessmediaproductions.org/ 
 
PARTICIPATION 
You may participate in the City Council meeting in real-time by calling Zoom Meeting via the weblink 
and phone number provided at the top of this agenda.  Instructions on how to access, view and 
participate in remote meetings are  provided by visiting the City’s home page at 
https://cityofmarina.org/. Attendees can make oral comments during the meeting by using the “Raise 
Your Hand” feature in the webinar or by pressing *9 on your telephone keypad if joining by phone 
only.  If you are unable to participate in real-time, you may email to marina@cityofmarina.org with the 
subject line “Public Comment Item#__ ” (insert the item number relevant to your comment) or “Public 
Comment – Non Agenda Item.”  Comments will be reviewed and distributed before the meeting if 
received by 5:00 p.m. on the day of the meeting.  All comments received will become part of the 
record.  Council will have the option to modify their action on items based on comments received.  
  
AGENDA MATERIALS 
Agenda materials, staff reports and background information related to regular agenda items are 
available on the City of Marina’s website www.cityofmarina.org.  Materials related to an item on this 
agenda submitted to the Council after distribution of the agenda packet will be made available on the 
City of Marina website www.cityofmarina.org subject to City staff’s ability to post the documents 
before the meeting 
 
Agenda for Special City Council Meeting of Wednesday, June 10, 2020 
 
   Page 2 
 
VISION STATEMENT 
Marina will grow and mature from a small-town bedroom community to a small city which is diversified, 
vibrant and through positive relationships with regional agencies, self-sufficient.  The City will develop in a way 
that insulates it from the negative impacts of urban sprawl to become a desirable residential and business 
community in a natural setting.  (Resolution No. 2006-112 - May 2, 2006) 
 
MISSION STATEMENT 
The City Council will provide the leadership in protecting Marina’s natural setting while developing the City in 
a way that provides a balance of housing, jobs and business opportunities that will result in a community 
characterized by a desirable quality of life, including recreation and cultural opportunities, a safe environment 
and an economic viability that supports a high level of municipal services and infrastructure.  (Resolution No. 
2006-112 - May 2, 2006) 
 
1. 
CALL TO ORDER 
 
2. 
ROLL CALL & ESTABLISHMENT OF QUORUM: (City Council, Airport 
Commissioners, Marina Abrams B Non-Profit Corporation, Preston Park Sustainable 
Communities Nonprofit Corporation, Successor Agency of the Former Redevelopment 
Agency Members and Marina Groundwater Sustainability Agency) 
 
Lisa Berkley, Adam Urrutia, Frank O’Connell, Mayor Pro-Tem/Vice Chair, Gail Morton, 
Mayor/Chair Bruce C. Delgado 
 
3. 
CLOSED SESSION:  As permitted by Government Code Section 54956 et seq., the (City Council, 
Airport Commissioners, Marina Abrams B Non-Profit Corporation, Preston Park Sustainable 
Communities Nonprofit Corporation, Successor Agency of the Former Redevelopment Agency 
Members and Marina Groundwater Sustainability Agency) may adjourn to a Closed or Executive 
Session to consider specific matters dealing with litigation, certain personnel matters, property 
negotiations or to confer with the City’s Meyers-Milias-Brown Act representative. 
a. b. Conference with Legal Counsel, anticipated litigation – significant exposure to 
litigation pursuant to paragraph (2) or (3) of subdivision (d) of CA Govt. 
Code Section 54956..9: three potential cases. 
b. Real Property Negotiations 
i. 
Property: Imjin Parkway/Landfill Site, APNs 031-101-039, 031-101-040, 031 
101-041 and 031-101-042 
Negotiating Party: County of Monterey and Successor to the Redevelopment 
Agency of the County of Monterey 
Property Negotiator: City Manager 
Terms: Price and Terms 
4. 
ADJOURNMENT:  
 
CERTIFICATION 
 
I, Anita Sharp, Deputy City Clerk, of the City of Marina, do hereby certify that a copy of the foregoing 
agenda was posted at City Hall and Council Chambers Bulletin Board at 211 Hillcrest Avenue, 
Monterey County Library Marina Branch at 190 Seaside Circle, City Bulletin Board at the corner of 
Reservation Road and Del Monte Boulevard on or before 6:30 p.m., Thursday, June 4, 2020. 
 
 
_______________________________________ 
ANITA SHARP, DEPUTY CITY CLERK 
Agenda for Special City Council Meeting of Wednesday, June 10, 2020 
 
   Page 3 
 
City Council, Airport Commission and Redevelopment Agency meetings are recorded on tape and 
available for public review and listening at the Office of the City Clerk and kept for a period of 90 days 
after the formal approval of MINUTES. 
City Council meetings may be viewed live on the meeting night and at 12:30 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. on 
Cable Channel 25 on the Sunday following the Regular City Council meeting date.  In addition, 
Council meetings can be viewed at 6:30 p.m. every Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday.  For more 
information about viewing the Council Meetings on Channel 25, you may contact Access Monterey 
Peninsula directly at 831-333-1267. 
Agenda items and staff reports are public record and are available for public review on the City's 
website (www.ciytofmarina.org), at the Monterey County Marina Library Branch at 190 Seaside 
Circle and at the Office of the City Clerk at 211 Hillcrest Avenue, Marina between the hours of 10:00 
a.m. 5:00 p.m., on the Monday preceding the meeting.   
Supplemental materials received after the close of the final agenda and through noon on the day of the 
scheduled meeting will be available for public review at the City Clerk’s Office during regular office 
hours and in a ‘Supplemental Binder’ at the meeting. 
Members of the public may receive the City Council, Airport Commission and Successor Agency of the 
Former Redevelopment Agency Agenda at a cost of $55 per year or by providing a self-addressed, 
stamped envelope to the City Clerk. The Agenda is also available at no cost via email by notifying the 
City Clerk at marina@cityofmarina.org   
ALL MEETINGS ARE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.  THE CITY OF MARINA DOES NOT 
DISCRIMINATE AGAINST PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.  Council Chambers are wheelchair 
accessible. meetings are broadcast on cable channel 25 and recordings of meetings can be provided 
upon request.  to request assistive listening devices, sign language interpreters, readers, large print 
agendas or other accommodations, please call (831) 884-1278 or e-mail: marina@cityofmarina.org. 
requests must be made at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting. 
 
