Saratoga Youth Commission Agenda – Page 1 of 3 
 
 
SARATOGA YOUTH COMMISSION  
REGULAR MEETING 
 
JUNE 9, 2020 
 
 
 
Teleconference/Public Participation Information to Mitigate the Spread of COVID‐19 
 
This meeting will be entirely by teleconference. All Commission members, staff, and public will 
only participate via the Zoom platform using the process described below. The meeting is being 
conducted in compliance with the Governor’s Executive Order N‐29‐20 suspending certain 
teleconference rules required by the Ralph M. Brown Act.  The purpose of this order was to provide 
the safest environment for the public, elected officials, and staff while allowing for continued 
operation of the government and public participation during the COVID‐19 pandemic. 
 
Members of the public view and participate in the meeting by using the Zoom website 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81421309552 or App (Webinar ID 814 2130 9552) and using the tool 
to raise their hand in the Zoom platform when directed by the Chair to speak on an agenda item. 
 
The public will not be able to participate in the meeting in person. 
 
As always, members of the public can send written comments to the Commission prior to the 
meeting by commenting online at www.saratoga.ca.us/yc prior to the start of the meeting. These 
emails will be provided to the members of the Commission and will become part of the official 
record of the meeting. 
 
During the meeting the Chair will explain the process for members of the public to be recognized 
to offer public comment.  
 
In accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Governor’s Executive Order, if 
you need assistance to participate in this meeting due to a disability, please contact the City Clerk 
at debbieb@saratoga.ca.us or calling 408.868.1216 as soon as possible before the meeting.  The 
City will use its best efforts to provide reasonable accommodations to provide as much 
accessibility as possible while also maintaining public safety. 
 
 
7:00 PM YOUTH COMMISSION SPECIAL MEETING 
 
ROLL CALL 
 
ORAL COMMUNICATIONS ON NON-AGENDIZED ITEMS 
Any member of the public may address the Youth Commission for up to three (3) minutes on matters 
not on the Agenda. The law generally prohibits the Youth Commission from discussing or taking 
action on such items. However, the Youth Commission can schedule the item for discussion at a 
future meeting.  
 
 
Saratoga Youth Commission Agenda – Page 2 of 3 
 
AGENDA ITEMS: 
 
1. Youth Commission Minutes 
Recommended Action: 
Review and approve the minutes from the May 26, 2020 meeting.  
 
2. Health Subcommittee  
Recommended Action: 
Review any updates and discuss implementation platforms. 
 
3. Art and Quarantine Subcommittee 
Recommended Action: 
Review any updates and discuss implementation platforms. 
 
4. Food Subcommittee 
Recommended Action: 
Review any updates and discuss implementation platforms. 
 
5. Special Presentation  
Recommended Action: 
Review and practice the special presentation for the City Council Meeting on June 17, 2020.   
 
6. End of the Year Celebration and Joint Meeting 
Recommended Action: 
End of the year celebration and special meeting are scheduled for June 19, 2020. 
 
ADJOURNMENT  
 
CERTIFICATE OF POSTING OF THE AGENDA, DISTRIBUTION OF THE AGENDA 
PACKET, COMPLIANCE WITH AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT  
I, Kayla Nakamoto, Community Engagement Coordinator for the City of Saratoga, declare that the foregoing 
agenda for the meeting of the Youth Commission was posted and available for review on June 4, 2020 at the City of 
Saratoga, 13777 Fruitvale Avenue, Saratoga, California and on the City's website at www.saratoga.ca.us.  
 
Signed this 4th day of June 2020 at Saratoga, California.  
 
Kayla Nakamoto, Community Engagement Coordinator 
 
In accordance with the Ralph M. Brown Act, copies of the staff reports and other materials provided to the Youth 
Commission by City staff in connection with this agenda, copies of materials distributed to the Youth Commission 
concurrently with the posting of the agenda, and materials distributed to the Youth Commission by staff after the 
posting of the agenda are available on the City Website at www.saratoga.ca.us.  Following removal of State and 
local shelter in place orders these materials will be available for review in the office of the City Clerk at 13777 
Fruitvale Avenue, Saratoga, California.  
 
In Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need assistance to participate in 
this meeting, please contact the City Clerk at debbieb@saratoga.ca.us or calling 408.868.1216 as 
Saratoga Youth Commission Agenda – Page 3 of 3 
 
soon as possible before the meeting.  The City will use its best efforts to provide reasonable 
accommodations to provide as much accessibility as possible while also maintaining public safety. 
 [28 CFR 35.102-35.104 ADA title II] 
 
