CITY OF EVERETT
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
The Department of Planning and Development will hold a virtual public hearing on Tuesday, June 9,
2020, at 6:00 p.m. The hearing’s purpose is to discuss a proposed grant application for FY 2019
CDBG–CV funding under the Massachusetts CDBG Program from the MA Department of Housing and
Community Development (DHCD). This is a special funding round resulting from an appropriation
through the CARES Act of 2020.
For this application, the City of Everett will be the lead community in a regional application that will also
include the City of Chelsea.  The City intends to seek funding to provide 1) grants to businesses defined as
micro-enterprises (those with 5 or fewer employees, including the owner(s)) and/or 2) funding to support
public social services activities designed to assist persons who have been impacted by the COVD-19
virus. The maximum funding available is $400,000 per individual community.
Due to the closure of city offices to the public, the hearing will be held on-line via Zoom on Tuesday, 
June 9, 2020, at 6:00 p.m. The meeting can be viewed live on the City of Everett’s Facebook page : 
https://www.facebook.com/cityofeverettma. During the meeting questions can be called in using this 
telephone number: 1-646-558-8656, when prompted enter Meeting ID: 913 0695 9057#. The telephone
number is for questions/comments only, you will not be able to listen or view the meeting this way. In 
order to view and listen to the meeting please use the Facebook link above. 
The meeting will also be repeated on the City’s public access channel for cable subscribers and 
available on demand via www.cityofeverett.com.
Any person or organization participating in the live on-line session will be afforded an opportunity to be
heard. Information to assist in determining urgent local needs is welcomed. Comments may be made at
the hearing or in writing by Thursday, June 11, 2020 at 12:00 p.m.  The City encourages a broad
spectrum of participation by residents and other interested parties. For further information or to submit
comments, email Tony Sousa, Director of Planning and Development at Tony.Sousa@ci.everett.ma.us
Carlo DeMaria
Mayor
