LINCOLN SELECT BOARD
NOTICE OF MEETING TO CONSIDER
REDUCING QUORUM FOR ANNUAL TOWN MEETING
JUNE 6, 2020
The Select Board hereby provides notice of its intention to considering an adjustment of the 
quorum requirements for the July 13, 2020 Annual Town Meeting.  House Bill 4777, signed 
by the Governor on June 5, 2020, and attached hereto, authorizes a Select Board to reduce the 
quorum for an Annual or Special Town Meeting, regardless of whether such quorum is set by 
bylaw or charter.  In Lincoln, Article II, Section 5 of the Bylaws provides for a quorum of 100 
voters.  
As background, based upon the orders and guidance issued by the Governor and the 
Commonwealth Department of Public Health, among others, restricting large gatherings and 
various public functions, and the declaration of a State of Emergency in the Commonwealth, 
significant planning was undertaken to hold Town Meeting outdoors.  The intent of such plan 
was to provide voters with a way to attend Town Meeting without having to choose between 
protecting their health and participating as a member of the legislative body of the Town.
A significant consideration in the Moderator’s decision to recess and continue the Annual Town 
Meeting from its scheduled date in March to June 13, 2020 was her obligation to ensure that all 
who wish to participate are able, particularly vulnerable members of our community.  The 
phased reopening of the Commonwealth has recently begun; however, holding a large meeting 
during this time must nevertheless account for appropriate safety planning.  Significant planning 
has been undertaken with respect to holding Town Meeting on June 13, 2020.
One of the most essential jobs of the Town Meeting is to set the budget for the upcoming fiscal 
year, and the Select Board and Finance Committee have determined that it is in the Town’s best 
interests to approve a budget for the upcoming fiscal year (rather than administratively approving
a 1/12th budget on a monthly basis).  Working with the Moderator, Town Administrator and 
other key staff, the Town has prepared a Town Meeting plan consistent with the advice and 
guidance of the Governor and the Department of Public Health. 
Therefore, to preserve the option for Town Meeting to be held with a lower quorum, the Board 
hereby provides notice of its intent to meet on a virtual platform on June 13, 2020 at 8:45 a.m.,
immediately prior to Town Meeting, to discuss whether, with the Moderator’s input and 
approval, it should lower the quorum to ensure that Town Meeting can undertake its 
responsibilities.  Such meeting will be conducted via a virtual platform with public access to 
allow the public to follow the deliberations in real time.  Please check the website at 
www.lincolntown.org for information about how to join the meeting.
The Select Board looks forward to seeing you at next week’s Town Meeting. 
