Town of Yarmouth 
Per M.G.L.: All town and school boards, committees, commissions, and authorities shall post a notice of 
every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  
Notice shall contain a listing of topics/agenda that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting. 
Notice of Meeting 
Name of committee, board, etc.: 
Board of Appeals 
Date of Meeting: 
Thursday – June 11, 2020 
Time: 
6:00 PM 
Place: 
Virtual Meeting  
The meeting will be held by remote participation pursuant to Massachusetts Governor Charles D. 
Baker’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law dated March 12, 2020.  
No in-person attendance of members of the public will be permitted, but every effort will be made 
to ensure that the public can adequately access the proceedings in real time, via technological 
means. An audio or video recording, transcript, or other comprehensive record of proceedings 
will be posted on the town’s website as soon as possible after the meeting. 
 
JOINING THE VIRTUAL MEETING: Members of the public can join the meeting using one of the 
following methods: 
 
To attend the meeting online, click https://us02web.zoom.us/s/82351297282 and follow 
the prompts or navigate to https://zoom.us/join and enter meeting/webinar ID 823 5129 
7282 and follow the prompts.  
 
To attend the meeting by dial-in phone, call +1 301 715 8592 and enter meeting ID 823 5129 
7282. The dial-in number can also be used to access the audio while watching the online 
meeting (if you don’t have speakers and/or a microphone). 
 
Please plan to join the virtual meeting at least five minutes before the start of the meeting to 
troubleshoot any issues you may have joining. 
 
The virtual meeting will also be live streamed and uploaded to the Town of Yarmouth YouTube 
Channel.  This live feed will not be monitored for public comment.  
 
APPLICANTS: 
 
Applicants will be called upon by the Chair to present their request.  Applicants can use the 
“Raise Hand” button to identify themselves (all participants will be muted, you must be 
recognized by the Chair to participate). 
 
Applicants attending by dial-in should press *9 to notify the Chair of their presence when called 
upon.  The meeting Moderator will un-mute applicants when they are called upon to speak. 
 
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION:  During the Public Comment period for Public Hearings, the Chair will 
invite the audience to comment: 
 
Online audience members wishing to participate during the public comment section of a 
hearing can use the “Raise Hand” button to notify the Chair.  All participants will be muted, 
you must be recognized by the Chair to participate. 
 
Dial-in audience members wishing to participate during the public comment section of a 
hearing should press *9 on their phone to notify the Chair. All participants will be muted, you 
must be recognized by the Chair to participate. 
 
As an alternative to making comments via the online audio or phone, you may also submit 
comments to the Moderator via the virtual meeting “chat” function.  To do this click on the 
“chat” icon and type your message.  When prompted, the Moderator will read comments and 
questions into the record. 
 
MEETING MATERIALS: 
 
Meeting materials will be displayed at the online meeting and are available by address on 
the Town Website at https://lf.yarmouth.ma.us/WebLink/Welcome.aspx?cr=1 or by using the 
direct links by Petition noted below. 
 
 
AGENDA (Topics to be discussed): 
 
PETITION #4848: Dennis & Donna Coffey, 29 Crest Circle, West Yarmouth, MA. Map & lot#: 
0022.60; Zoning District: R-25.  The applicant seeks a Variance from Zoning By-law §203.5 to 
encroach into required side setback. 
https://lf.yarmouth.ma.us/WebLink/DocView.aspx?id=1541428&dbid=0&repo=LASERFICHE 
 
 
 
 
Posted By (Name): 
Sandi Clark 
Signature: 
Sandi Clark 
 
 
 
