**Please note that due to the ongoing COVID-19 public health emergency, some or all members of this
governing body may attend via telephone or internet.
The City Council Chambers will be open to the public but limited to 10 attendees or less due to social distancing.
(Use the lower level doors.) For your personal safety and the safety of our community, interested persons are
invited to watch from their homes in lieu of attending the meeting in person.**
The public may view and/or participate in the meeting by:
Calling Toll Free 1-844-992-4726, access code: 132 673 9120
Visiting the web link: https://tinyurl.com/ybubu6hn
Viewing the City's YouTube Channel: https://www.youtube.com/user/cityofriverfalls
Call Meeting to Order - 6:30 p.m.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Approval of Minutes - May 12 Workshop; May 26 Board of Review; May 26 Regular Meeting
May 12 Workshop Minutes
May 26 Board of Review Minutes
May 26 City Council Regular Meeting Minutes
Approval of Bills
*** NOTE: OFFICIAL ACTION MAY BE TAKEN ON ANY AGENDA ITEM ***
PUBLIC COMMENT, PETITIONS, REQUESTS AND COMMUNICATIONS:
1.
Public Comment
PUBLIC HEARING:
2.
6:32 p.m.
Resolution Approving a General Development Plan for DeSanctis Townhomes
3.
6:33 p.m.
Resolution Renaming Edenburgh Drive to Kingston Street in Sterling Ponds
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS:
4.
Ordinance 2020-06 - Amending the Official Traffic Control Map of the City of River Falls (Speed Limit on
South Main from Cemetery Road north to the UWRF Falcon Center entrance) - First Reading
5.
Resolution Approving Final Plat for Sterling Ponds 2nd Addition
COMMON COUNCIL AGENDA
June 9, 2020
1
6.
Resolution Approving Final Plat for Sterling Ponds Cottages
7.
Resolution Amending Sterling Ponds Developer's Agreement
8.
Resolution Awarding the Sale of $6,250,000 General Obligation Corporate Purpose Bonds, Series 
2020A
9.
Resolution Ratifying Chief of Police Proclamations
REPORTS:
10.
Administrator's Report
11. Mayor's Appointments
ADJOURNMENT
2
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
RIVER FALLS CITY COUNCIL WORKSHOP REGARDING
COVID 19 RESPONSE AND RECOVERY
May 12, 2020, 5 p.m.
City Hall, 222 Lewis Street, River Falls, WI 54022
City Council Members Present:  Mayor Dan Toland, Todd Bjerstedt, Sean Downing, Chris Gagne, Scott Morrissette, 
Diane Odeen, Ben Plunkett, Hal Watson
City Council Members Absent: None
City Staff Present: City Administrator Scot Simpson; Assistant City Administrator Jason Stroud; ohers
Others: AZ Snyder, Pierce County Health Officer; Kelli Engen, St. Croix County Health Officer
Due to Covid 19, the Mayor called a virtual workshop to order at 5 p.m. He gave the floor to the health officers. AZ 
Snyder and Kelli Engen each introduced themselves and provided a brief background.
Snyder provided a situational update. Currently, Pierce County has 13 confirmed cases with four active and six probable. 
On March 9, Pierce County confirmed the second positive case in Wisconsin. This forced us to get ready for what was 
next. We had to halt a cluster in Ellsworth. 
Engen said St. Croix County had 36 confirmed cases in St. Croix County with 19 active and 22 probable. She talked about 
a county resident that had returned from Wuhan, China. 
Engen said both Pierce and St. Croix County are nationally accredited health departments. She talked about public 
health’s functions during an outbreak: monitor health, diagnose and investigate, information, education and empower, 
develop policies, enforce laws, link to care, assure competent workforce, mobile community partnerships, evaluate, and 
research.
Snyder talked about practicing for emergencies. We work every day as epidemiologists to monitor and assess. They do a 
lot of educating and empowering residents, assisting and developing policies, enforcement, linking to care and care 
coordination, ensuring a competent workforce in the county. We work hard to keep up-to-date with news coming out of 
the CDC, DHS, and WHO on Covid 19. 
Engen talked about the roles of a health officer. It is written in the statues. Some of duties are in Chapter 252 which 
governs communicable disease. Some of the duties of local health officer are to take measures to prevent, suppress, and 
control communicable disease.
Chapter 252 defines powers and duties of the department and local health officers as relates to CDC control. It authorizes
a fine of $500 or not more than 30 days of imprisonment for violating state statute/rule or local ordinance relating to 
public health under this chapter. Administrative Rule 145requires reporting of communicable disease.
Snyder talked about the key triggers for when a state can reopen including decrease in cases, decrease in health care 
worker infections, sufficient PPE for health care staff for two weeks, the ability to contact 100 percent of symptomatic 
contacts, having enough hand sanitizer to place at entrances to buildings, having designated facilities for non-hospitalized 
Covid-infected patients who cannot convalesce at home.
3
Engen talked about daily inquiries about PPE and the shortage of it.
Snyder showed a chart of the current metrics. She is unsure of how the state is measuring the metrics. She talked about the 
different metrics, their usefulness, and the information provided. Snyder talked about the next 18 months. She talked 
about tighten and losing resulting in smaller spikes. It is important to have good local data. Snyder talked about current 
public health efforts. This is what she is working on in May and June:

Testing – ensure Pierce County residents have access to Covid-19 test if symptoms develop.

Tracing – ensure all high and medium risk contacts of cases are contacted within 24 hours and if positive, are
safely able to quarantine/isolate.

Data – ensure meaningful metrics are used to guide decision making.

Health care – advocate filling of gaps that inhibit Covid 19 care and testing.

Partners – ensure service organization has practices in place to reopen in a way that minimizes risk to staff and
clients.

Businesses – ensure every business has practices in place e to reopen in a way that minimizes risk to
staff/customers.
Snyder talked about the testing events which were held last weekend. She said 229 people were tested at Baldwin and 184 
at River Falls. There were positive results. She talked about where patients can get tested.
Snyder talked about what happens next. She will be working with the state on a specific plan for moving from Safer at 
Home through the Badger Bounce Back phases using risk-based strategies. She talked about communication of the high
likelihood of multiple peaks and advocating for detailed travel recommendations within each phase. Snyder spoke about 
working with the state to develop meaningful local metrics, include measuring local capacity. Engen talked about the 
importance of having consistency when things reopen. She talked about the importance of being safe, careful, and 
strategic.
Upon conclusion of the presentation, the Mayor asked Council if they had questions. Alderperson Downing asked Snyder
to describe contact tracing. Snyder answered and also talked about doing detailed interviews with persons who test 
positive to understand their movements in the 14 days before they became symptomatic, reaching out to other persons 
who have been in contact with the infected person, monitoring symptoms, and working with employers where the 
exposure may have occurred.
Alderperson Gagne asked about if people don’t comply. Snyder talked about strategy for high and medium risks contacts.
Gagne asked about her authority if the Wisconsin Supreme Court rules that the governor’s authority is unconstitutional. 
Snyder talked about local health officer order which is separate from the governor’s order. Gagne asked further about her 
authority based on a scenario regarding the Barron County Sheriff. Snyder talked about the options including issuing 
tickets.
Alderperson Morrissette asked the health officers about the Covid numbers in their respective counties. Each provided 
answers. Morrissette expressed concern about the City having two health officers (due to the City sitting on the county 
borders). Engen said that she and Snyder are communicating constantly. We don’t want to divide communities between 
county lines. Snyder talked about clusters effecting clusters in other areas. It is likely for St. Croix County to have more 
cases due to a larger population. Morrissette talked about assessing needs county by county.
Alderperson Bjerstedt asked about the 18 months chart. What does regional mean? Snyder said we are part of western 
region which is 17 counties and two tribes. She talked about Polk, Pierce, St. Croix, Dunn, Pepin are more similar and can
coordinate better. 
Gagne asked why did the big box stores allowed to stay open? Why can’t local businesses do the same? Engen thought it 
was interesting what is deemed essential. Big box stores do carry essential items. She talked about the gap economically 
with big and small businesses and small versus large spaces. As we go into reopening, we need to have good guidance. 
Snyder said the state needs to explain the public health reasons behind decisions that are being made. 
4
Gagne asked about retail versus service. He talked about chiropractors, veterinarians, hair salons. Snyder talked about 
essential versus non-essential distinction. She talked about helping the businesses operate going forward.
Alderperson Plunkett asked about death rates and other long-term health implications. He asked how these impacts are 
taken into consideration for public health. Engen said we don’t know the consequences yet, but it may show up later. 
Alderperson Downing asked about the cluster in Ellsworth. Snyder talked about the cluster and how she dealt with it. 
Small communities think they are immune.
Plunkett asked about using masks. Snyder said masks are a great control but not everyone can safely wear a mask. She is 
cognizant of the social stigma about wearing a mask wearing. She recommends wearing masks. 
Engen talked about universal masking. Orders around masks are hard to enforce. She strongly recommends wearing a 
mask.
Alderperson Odeen asked if Snyder or Engen had run into opposition in doing your work. How can the Council help you 
do your work?
Engen said we have had a little bit of pushback. There are groups that they say nasty things. Councils, county boards, etc. 
need to support good public health. It’s weighing on us. Snyder talked about threats of violence. She appreciated the 
reminder Mayor Toland did – reminding everyone that we are local people who live in your community. 
Alderperson Watson learned a lot tonight and appreciated Snyder and Engen doing the workshop. He is reassured that you 
two are working closely together. He appreciates that the City won’t be split. We need to know what you need from us. 
He hopes people take to heart wearing facemasks when in public. He thinks that is the next step to move forward. 
Gagne asked about a worker testing positive; what does that look like? Snyder said it depends on timeline when they were
last at work.  She gave an example. Engen has had a number test positive in businesses. Businesses have been more than 
willing to cooperative. 
Watson asked about workers coming back to businesses. Snyder said some is addressed in the Pierce County toolkit.
Gagne asked about the best resources for people in both counties to reach them. Engen provided her email address, and 
she there is a Covid hotline on the website. Snyder said there is a direct line and email for businesses. The Mayor thanked 
Snyder and Engen.
City Administrator Simpson provided a staff presentation He credited Jason Stroud about organizing the workshop with 
the health officers. The City has issued a ‘Crushing Covid’ plan. We are bound by the State of Wisconsin and are 
operating on framework of the Wisconsin Bounce Back plan. He talked about the four phases and the metrics.
The City is maintaining our focus on our five core functions: delivering quality public safety services; supporting local 
economy and business community; connecting community resources.
The core focus areas are being adaptable in face of change and uncertainty, capitalizing on opportunity for improvement, 
removing barriers, applying lessons learned in response, aligning collaborating and innovating with partners.
He said the ‘Crushing Covid’ plan is located on the City’s website. There is a real connection to the St. Paul/Minneapolis
metro area. Simpson talked about the City being located in two counties. There are times when Madison/Milwaukee 
approaches are not adequate. At end of day, if state-wide measures are inappropriate, have to convince them. As things are 
relaxed, we will work with local health officers.
There is some policymaking role that the Council has - plus we are an employer. We have to keep both roles in mind. The 
plan includes Badger Bounce back plan. The primary job is to provide insight into local execution. It will come back to 
the Council at the next meeting. PPE is still an issue, but it is much improved. We do favor a regional approach but is not 
necessarily allowed right now. What we can control is phasing up things that are allowed. He talked about phasing.
Simpson talked about the communication strategy. There will be a Mayor’s video message weekly. There will two reports 
in the packet from the City Administrator. We will focus on our official partners for official information. Simpson talked 
5
about the City’s enforcement strategy and provided an example. He talked about the business community. The City is 
committed with working with the Chamber on recovery. He talked about the City’s loan program which will be done with 
our own money sources.
Simpson talked about the City’s fiscal plan. We need to rebalance 2020 budget. He talked about the different funds. We 
are reworking strategic initiatives. He highlighted projects that will be delayed until 2022 - any big work on strategy for 
the fire department project, the water utility portion of AMI, working on a strategic plan for the library, the update 
downtown master plan, working on the new science facility for UWRF, the update of the outdoor recreation plan, street 
light utility, Mann Valley delayed (possible EDA funding for industrial parks – that we may take advantage of it.)
The Mayor asked for questions. Gagne thanked Simpson for all the stuff that he and staff are enduring. You guys are 
doing a fantastic job particularly the clerks. He appreciated staff working to remove red tape and helping move the 
businesses forward. 
Downing had a question for Police Chief Young. He wanted to know how he feels we are progressing as a City. Young 
thought we were progressing very well under the leadership of Scot, Jason and public health.
Morrissette asked about the four measurements. We are starting to put ideas on what it looks like.
Simpson said we are frustrated with some things from State. He said most of measures they are using are up. He suggested 
that it is difficult for most people to get at. Our plan is to get best localized plan they we can. He talked about getting data.
We don’t make the final call as a City.
Morrissette talked about conversations with business owners. They don’t understand where they fall. He talked about bars 
and restaurants. 
Simpson said our summary is from the Badger Bounce Back. Bars are still a no in Phase 1. State is working on Phase 2. If 
there are questions, call the City’s general number for help. Simpson talked further about different businesses.
Morrissette asked if metrics would be put together in the four areas. Simpson said yes and spoke in more detail. Assistant 
City Administrator Stroud said Snyder and Engen have been very helpful. They are willing to hold weekly check in 
meetings with him. On Thursdays, he will have data updates.
Plunkett asked about the City’s liability issues in accordance with Chapter 893 Wisconsin Statutes. Have we looked at our
insurance coverage?
Simpson talked about employee liability. He talked about protecting customers on a best practices’ standpoint. 
Odeen said unless we are purposely wanting to hurt people, we, as a City, have immunity. This was Simpson’s 
understanding too. 
Downing asked about legal obligations with Shared Ride Taxi Service. Simpson said it is our service, so we have some 
liability. There is a process if someone has a claim. He talked further.
Gagne asked about mental health issues. 
Mayor Toland thanked everyone tonight. Watson said nice work on communications. 
The workshop ended at 7:27 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Kristi McKahan, Deputy Clerk
6
BOARD OF REVIEW
May 26, 2020, 6:15 p.m.
Members Present: Todd Bjerstedt, Sean Downing, Chris Gagne, Scott Morrissette, Dan Toland, Ben 
Plunkett, Hal Watson, Amy White
Members Absent: Diane Odeen
City Clerk White called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. in a virtual meeting format due to Covid 19. 
Roll call was taken.
Clerk White stated the purpose of the meeting was to motion to adjourn the Board of Review until 
Thursday, August 6, 2020, at 4 p.m. She would accept a motion to adjourn.
MS Morrissette/Toland move to adjourn until that time. Clerk White asked for a roll call vote. The 
roll call vote passed 8-0 with all voting in favor.
Meeting adjourned at 6:16 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,
Kristi McKahan
Deputy Clerk
7
CITY OF RIVER FALLS, WISCONSIN
COMMON COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS
May 26, 2020
Mayor Dan Toland called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. in a virtual meeting format due to the Covid 19 
pandemic. The City Council Chambers was open for public to attend.  
City Council Members Present: Todd Bjerstedt, Sean Downing, Christopher Gagne, Scott Morrissette, Diane 
Odeen, Ben Plunkett, Hal Watson
Members Absent: None
Staff Present: City Administrator Scot Simpson; City Attorney Chris Gierhart; IT Manager Mike Reardon; IT 
Specialist Jon Smits; Finance Director Sarah Karlsson; City Clerk Amy White; Police Chief Gordon Young;
Utility Director Westhuis; others
Others Present: Ben Fochs, Brenda Gutting, Mark Hein, Jeffrey Wesley
The Pledge of Allegiance was said.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
April 21 Organizational and April 28 Regular Meeting Minutes
MS Morrissette/Watson approve minutes.  MS Plunkett/Watson move to amend minutes by removing
Michael Page and adding Ben Plunkett as attendees at the April 28 meeting. With no other comments, the 
Mayor asked for a vote on the amendment. It passed unanimously. The Mayor asked for a vote on the 
approval of both sets of minutes. It passed unanimously.
APPROVAL OF BILLS:
Bills: May 12 $2,430,280.65 and May 26 $769,587.81
The Mayor noted there would be two separate votes on the bills. MS Downing/Watson move to approve May 
12 bills subject to the comptroller. The roll call vote passed 7-0 with all voting in favor. MS 
Gagne/Downing move to approve May 26 bills subject to comptroller. The roll call vote passed 7-0 with 
all voting in favor.
PUBLIC COMMENT, PETITIONS, REQUESTS AND COMMUNICATIONS:
Benjamin Fochs, 2529 Powell Avenue – mentioned the City’s communications. He expressed concerns about 
Council members in private forums. He also mentioned emergency repairs on Powell Avenue bridge and the 
delay of the North Interceptor Sewer project. 
Alderperson Gagne received a couple of complaints from residents about projects going on in his neighborhood 
which involved large truck traffic. Both the Mayor and Gagne noted staff had talked to the contractor to ensure 
the trucks were rerouted. There were no other public comments.
PUBLIC HEARING: 
Annual Liquor License and Beer License Renewals – Hearing and Disposition by Motion for each License Class
At 6:37 p.m., the Mayor moved into a Public Hearing. There were no comments. At 6:38 p.m., the Mayor 
closed the public hearing and moved into Open Session.
The Mayor noted there were four new agents with three present. Alderperson Morrissette had questions for the 
new agents. First, he asked new agent, Brenda Gutting from Aldi, the following questions: do you understand 
8
City Council Minutes for May 26, 2020
Page 2
the role of an agent? Do you understand that if an alcohol related violation happens even if you are not at the 
location, you are still responsible? Do you have your responsible servers license? Gutting answered yes to all.
Then Alderperson Morrissette asked new agent, Mark Hein from Family Fresh, the following questions: do you 
understand the role of an agent? Do you understand that if an alcohol related violation happens even if you are 
not at the location, you are still responsible? Do you have your responsible servers license? Hein answered yes 
to all.
Lastly, Alderperson Morrissette asked new agent, Jeffrey Wesley Hein from Juniors, the following questions: do 
you understand the role of an agent? Do you understand that if an alcohol related violation happens even if you 
are not at the location, you are still responsible? Do you have your responsible servers license? Wesley 
answered yes to all.
The Mayor moved onto the liquor license renewals for Class “A” Beer Licenses and Class “A” Cider Only 
licenses for the two Bob and Steve’s locations. Alderperson Plunkett said he would be making an amendment 
individually to require mask usage by employees and customers at all times and restrict alcohol sampling until 
the City Council votes to amend those two provisions. Deputy Clerk McKahan said a main motion was needed 
before an amendment. The Mayor said would take a main motion first and wasn’t sure if the City could enforce 
mask usage.
MS Gagne/Odeen move to grant renewals for the Class “A” Beer Licenses and Class “A” Cider Only 
licenses contingent that all licensing requirements are met at the time of issuance (Bob & Steve’s Store #4
and #6). MS Plunkett/Downing to amend by no sampling of beer or cider on this licensed premises until 
the City Council votes to remove that prohibition and to require mask usage by store employees and 
customers for Bob and Steve’s #4, Paulson Road. The Mayor asked for discussion.
Gagne would not be voting in favor because no other businesses have been required to do this. There are strict 
guidelines from the county health officials and also the City. There is nothing we can do to force the hand of 
other businesses. To impose this on just a few, would be an injustice. He will be voting against the amendment. 
Morrissette wasn’t clear how we would enforce this. The Mayor agreed and said that was a question for the City 
Attorney.
Odeen understood Plunkett’s concern and shares it but believes if the City is going to have a mask requirement, 
it needs to be implemented on all businesses and not just as a condition of a liquor license. The Mayor asked 
City Attorney Gierhart if amendments needed to be made individually or if they can be made as a licensing 
group. Gierhart said one amendment can be made for the entire group.
Downing asked City Administrator Simpson if the amendment would be following in the guidelines of the 
City’s “Crushing Covid” plan. Simpson noted in the guidelines, the recommendation is anytime a person cannot 
social distance, wearing a mask is recommended. The Mayor asked about enforcement. Simpson wasn’t sure it 
was tested but thought if there was a category of businesses that the Council could use its home rule powers -
which are typically granting licenses - this is probably this is the one category that it could be done. It isn’t clear 
to him on how firm of ground there is to add these amendments. 
Gierhart said because it is licensing, the City does have more discretion to impose restrictions on licensed 
premises. If you are going to do it, it should be uniform for all licensed premises. This hasn’t been tested. This 
would be a legal gray area which begs the question; if you enforce it, how do you enforce it on a practical level?
Downing asked for Chief Young’s opinion on enforcement on this policy. Young said as long as the City 
Attorney has a prospective that it was enforceable, he would have to look into it (and if the City Council 
approved it). Young said it would be difficult to enforce on a consistent basis meaning there are two to three 
staff working each shift throughout the City. If it is the wish of the City Council and is allowable, it is something 
we would enforce.
9
City Council Minutes for May 26, 2020
Page 3
Odeen asked Gierhart to give an example of other licensed businesses the Council could impose similar 
requirements. Gierhart was thinking of liquor licenses as City generally doesn’t license other businesses; the 
state does. None of his other municipal clients have done this; he has hesitant about the City adopting this. The 
courts could take a critical eye to this but noted the City isn’t trying to supersede the health officer but is tying it 
to a license. If there was a violation, you’d have to take an action to revoke the license. It would likely be 
challenged in court. Gierhart suggested that perhaps the best approach would be for the City Council to suggest 
masking consistent with DHS and county health guidelines rather that make it a condition of issuance.
Morrissette asked Plunkett if he envisioned a monetary fine or removal of license. He wasn’t sure of 
enforcement. Plunkett said liquor licenses are punishable by the removal of the license that would have to come 
back before the Council which he would support. 
Downing asked Gierhart about an individual mandate and also protecting the City. Gierhart said it would be 
better to use general police powers to impose general health and safety measures being mindful of the 
Wisconsin Supreme Court decision that shutting down businesses and travel would not be allowed. We’re in 
uncharted territory, the further restriction you go to restrict a business, the more likely it is to be challenged. His 
recommendation would be to issue strong guideline consistent with the local health departments. 
Gagne gave an example of drinking a beer with a mask which he felt was more unsafe due to touching of the 
face/surfaces. Plunkett questioned how drinking could be made in accordance with his amendment.
Downing encouraged Council to think of businesses in the entirety and not individually. Plunkett clarified the 
motion was for one of the Bob and Steve’s but would be making another amendment for the second location. 
Gagne asked about requiring masks for other stores in the community. He talked about being in favor of 
individual businesses making that decision but not Council imposing it on a few businesses.
The roll call vote on the amendment for Bob and Steve’s #4 failed 6-1 with all voting against except for 
Plunkett.
MS Plunkett/Downing for Bob and Steve’s #6 on North Main Street to amend by restricting sampling of 
cider and beer on site and to require mask usage during the hours that alcohol sales are conducted at this 
site. The roll call vote on the amendment for Bob and Steve’s #6 failed 6-1 with all voting against except 
for Plunkett.
The roll call vote for the original motion for Class “A” Beer Licenses and Class “A” Cider Only passed 6-
1 with all voting in favor except for Plunkett.
MS Watson/Downing move to renewals for the Combination “Class A” Liquor and Class “A” Beer 
Licenses contingent that all licensing requirements are met at the time of issuance (Aldi #49, Devine 
Liquors, Dick’s Hometown Liquor, Dollar General Store #6482, Family Fresh Market #322, Kwik Trip 
Store #301 and #453, Walgreens #10585, WE Market Co-op).  
Motion by Plunkett for Aldi #49 liquor license to require mask usage mandatory by both employees and 
customers during hours when alcohol is buying sold and that there is no sampling on premises. The Mayor 
said the City Attorney said a motion can be made for the entire group. He asked Plunkett if he wanted to make 
the amendment for the license group. Plunkett said yes. There was no second. The amendment failed. 
The Mayor asked other comments. Morrissette said there was a change of agent for WE Market (Whole Earth). 
The agent did not appear so Morrissette felt the license needed to be excluded from the motion. MS 
Morrissette/Odeen amend motion to exclude WE Market until such time that the new agent of record can 
appear before the Council. The roll call vote passed 7-0 with all voting in favor. The Mayor asked
for a roll call vote on the original motion. The vote passed 6-1 with all voting in favor except for Plunkett.
10
City Council Minutes for May 26, 2020
Page 4
MS Odeen/Gagne move to grant renewals for the Class “B” Beer Licenses contingent that all licensing 
requirements are met at the time of issuance (Luigi’s Pizza, Smokey Treats, Steve’s Pizza, Swinging 
Bridge Brewery).  Plunkett move to amend asking that no on-site sales or sampling of alcoholic beverages 
allowed until such a time that it is removed by City Council. The Mayor asked for a second. There was 
none. The amendment failed.
The Mayor asked for discussion on the original motion. Morrissette said Luigi’s Pizza did not answer question 
C3 – “does the applicant understand that they must purchase alcohol beverages only from Wisconsin 
wholesales, breweries or brew pubs?” Morrissette asked that an answer be given as consistent with the motion 
before a license is issued. Gagne agreed.
The Mayor asked for a roll call vote on the original motion. The vote passed 6-1 with all voting in favor 
except for Plunkett.
MS Gagne/Bjerstedt move to grant renewals for the Combination “Class B” Liquor and Class “B” Beer 
Licenses contingent on all licensing requirements being met at the time of issuance (American Legion Post 
121, Broz Sports Bar & Grill, Emma’s Bar, Falls Theatre, Johnnies Bar, Junior’s Restaurant and Tap 
House, Lazy River Bar & Grill, Mainstreeter Bar & Grill, Mariachi Loco, Mavericks Corner Saloon
Mel’s Midtowner LLC, Moonshiners BX, Nutty Squirrel, River Falls Golf Club, River Falls Moose 
Lodge, Shooters Pub, St. Croix Lanes, Westwind Supper Club).  The Mayor asked for discussion. 
Morrissette noted that Castrol Corp., tradename Moonshiners BX, did not answer question C3. He believes 
the Clerk is aware, but it needs to be answered before license issuance.
The Mayor asked for other comments. Motion by Plunkett to restrict all sales to off sale with no on-site 
consumption of beer or liquor and no sampling of beer or liquor until such time that the City Council 
amends it and to require mask usage by both customers and employees during all times when alcoholic 
beverages are being sold until such time that the City Council amends it. The Mayor asked for a second. 
There was none. The amendment failed.
The Mayor asked for a roll call vote on the original motion. The vote passed 6-1 with all voting in favor 
except for Plunkett.
MS Odeen/Morrissette move to grant renewal of the “Class C” Wine Licenses contingent that all licensing 
requirements are met at the time of issuance (Smokey Treats, Steve’s Pizza, Swinging Bridge Brewery).  
The Mayor asked for other comments. Motion by Plunkett to restrict any on premise sales until such time 
that the City Council allows such and require mask usage at any time when alcohol is being sold by 
customers and employees until such time that restriction is removed. The Mayor asked for a second. 
There was none. The amendment failed.
The Mayor asked for a roll call vote on the original motion. The vote passed 6-1 with all voting in favor 
except for Plunkett.
CONSENT AGENDA:
Acknowledgement of the following minutes: Police and Fire Commission – 9/3/19; Library Board – 4/6/20; River 
Falls Housing Authority – 3/11/20
Resolution No. 6476 - Regarding Liquor License Fees for 2020-2021
Resolution No. 6477 - Approving Agricultural Lease Agreement for Whitetail Corporate Park Properties
MS Morrissette/Odeen move to approve the Consent Agenda. The roll call vote passed 7-0 with all voting 
in favor.
11
City Council Minutes for May 26, 2020
Page 5
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution No. 6478 to Amend Specific Implementation Plan for 1300 S. Main Street
MS Downing/Watson move to approve resolution. The Mayor asked for comments/questions. 
Gagne talked about the use of solar, rents, and made suggestions for the developer. He is in favor of the project.
Downing applauded the work put into it and felt it followed the City’s Comprehensive Plan regarding renewable 
energy.
Morrissette liked the solar panels on the roof but was concerned about the aesthetics of the sunflowers in the 
front yard. He is in favor but is hesitant about the sunflowers.
Plunkett felt both the sunflowers and roof top solar were vanity solar projects. He thought the City could do 
much better in terms of solar through other methods. He talked about ‘greenwashing’.
With no other comments, the Mayor asked for a roll call vote. The roll call vote passed 7-0 with all voting 
in favor.
Resolution No. 6479 - Approving Bid for Sanitary Sewer and Water Main Relocations for Hanson Drive/Jug 
Handle 
MS Odeen/Morrissette move to approve the resolution. The Mayor asked for comments. Watson asked about 
the cost in terms of the budget. City Administrator Simpson said this is coming out of reserves. Utility Director 
Westhuis confirmed that the costs were coming out of the cash reserves. With no other comments, the Mayor 
asked for a roll call vote. The roll call vote passed 7-0 with all voting in favor.
Resolution No. 6480 - Approving 2020 CIP Revisions
MS Morrissette/Watson move to approve resolution. The Mayor asked for questions/comments. Downing 
talked about the elimination of the Sterling Hill disc golf course. He thought most of the cost would come from 
donations. He asked about putting the project back in. Simpson said the project is $75,000 with half coming 
from donations. It is being eliminated because we have too many things on the list. 
Odeen asked if it could be added to in the future. Simpson talked about coming back to the Council in the future 
with projects. He wanted to give Council his best estimates. 
Morrissette talked about the AMI and downtown alley plan. He asked about looking at the delayed projects in 
2021. Mayor Toland thought the projects were being moved into the downtown plan. Simpson wants to send a 
clear signal to staff to quit working on the project. Some of the items, we need to remove completely. If 
something isn’t priority, nothing is priority. Morrissette expressed concerned that there wasn’t a placeholder for 
some projects. He asked about different messaging. 
Downing, who is the Park and Recreation Board, said all the members are 100 percent committed to the disc 
golf course and the project has already been delayed.
MS Downing/Odeen to use the word ‘delayed’ instead of ‘eliminate’ and use the judgment of the City 
Administrator to see if it (disc golf course) can be worked into the 2021 CIP.
Gagne spoke in favor of the amendment. He shared an example of a frisbee golf course built in Willow River 
State Park by volunteers.
Morrissette talked about the CIP flowing into the Work Plan. He thought that a trade off would need to be made 
in order to add a project. He would not support the amendment. 
Gagne said this just a wording change. He spoke further about volunteers planning and doing the work. He was 
in favor of marking it ‘delayed’.
12
City Council Minutes for May 26, 2020
Page 6
Odeen asked if it was possible to list a project as ‘delayed’ on the CIP an instruct the staff not to work on it. 
Simpson said yes. He didn’t want to give the Council the impression that we won’t take direction. He wants to 
make sure that we are going in the right direction.
Watson was in support. He felt the neighborhood needs the ability to recreate. Gagne talked further about setting 
a precedence.
With no other comments, the Mayor asked for a roll call vote. The roll call vote passed 6-1 with all voting 
in favor except for Morrissette. The Mayor asked for a roll call vote on the original motion. The roll call 
vote passed 7-0 with all voting in favor.
Resolution No. 6481 - Acknowledging Modifications to 2019-2021 Strategic Initiatives 
MS Downing/Bjerstedt move to approve the resolution. With no comments, the Mayor asked for a roll call 
vote. The roll call vote passed 7-0 with all voting in favor.
Resolution No. 6482 - Authorizing the Recovery Revolving Loan Program and Committee
MS Morrissette/Downing move to approve the resolution. The Mayor asked for questions/comments. 
Gagne asked about funding. Was it a grant? Simpson said no; these funds were authorized by the Council as a 
priority. The Council is setting the cap at a higher amount. Gagne asked about repayment. Simpson said the 
intention to be a one-time distribution.
Downing asked about the money coming back to the City and what are the qualifications. Simpson said the 
reallocation was $500,000, and he provided further details. The eligibility is broad. The committee will determine 
eligibility. Simpson provided more detail. Plunkett asked how the loans would be collateralized. Simpson said 
they would not be – a personal guarantee is requested, and we are expecting repayment. Morrissette said personal 
guarantees do come with some teeth but said the goal is to give a boost to the economy. Odeen has been on the 
committee. She said the City’s loan is usually the loan of last resort. In general, there are no issues in repayment. 
She thinks it is a great program.
Morrissette talked about the repayment monies being placed into the revolving loan fund and second into the 
general fund. Plunkett disagreed and felt the best way to support local businesses was to ensure that customers
have money to spend at them. He thought it was better to have that same dollar amount to ensure citizens would 
get their unemployment benefits. Having a benefits specialist would give a greater return to our community. 
Watson is in favor and noted the loan amount would not exceed $50,000. Both the Mayor and Morrissette clarified 
the loans were only for $5,000 or $10,000. He felt main street businesses would be in critical condition, if they 
are already aren’t, and felt it was in the City’s best interest to have main street survive. Watson felt the community 
would support lending a hand to these businesses.
Downing asked Odeen if she agreed that there was a history of success with this loan program. Odeen said yes.
Gagne asked if personal information was gathered on the application and if it tied back to a credit bureau. Simpson 
said it was more of a basic application. He provided more details and talked about working on Plunkett and 
Morrissette’s concerns. Gagne was in favor and felt it was a great opportunity for businesses. Simpson said the 
loan status will be public.
With no other comments, the Mayor asked for a roll call vote. The roll call vote passed 7-0 with all voting 
in favor.
REPORTS:
Administrator’s Report
City Administrator Simpson thanked the Mayor and City Council for being their patience. He thanked them for 
their feedback on the CIP and Strategic Initiatives. Simpson talked about the Powell Avenue bridge, 
13
City Council Minutes for May 26, 2020
Page 7
deterioration, and funding. Simpson provided answers to questions regarding the county health officers,
additional restrictions on the shared ride taxi, and use of facemasks.
Comptroller's Report for April 2020
Comptroller Odeen read the following: General Fund revenues through the end of April were $3,926,933 or 36
percent of total budgeted revenues for 2020. Revenues in April include $180,586 in transportation aids and 
annual lottery credits from the state of Wisconsin, and $16,250 in subdivision fees. Expenditures for the same 
period were $2,965,661 or 27 percent of total budgeted expenses for 2020, for a net of revenues over 
expenditures of $961,272.
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
EMS Week Proclamation
The Mayor read a proclamation for EMS Week.
Mayor’s Appointment
MSC Morrissette/Gagne move for the reappointment of Jon Longsdorf to the Police and Fire Commission 
through April 2025. The motion passed unanimously.
MSC Bjerstedt/Downing move to adjourn at 8:32 p.m. Unanimous.
Respectfully submitted,
Kristi McKahan, Deputy Clerk
14
2
MEMORANDUM
TO:
Mayor Toland and City Council
FROM:
Brandy Howe, Senior Planner 
DATE:
June 9, 2020
TITLE:
Resolution Approving DeSanctis Townhomes General Development Plan
RECOMMENDED ACTION
Approve Resolution regarding DeSanctis Townhomes General Development Plan. 
BACKGROUND
The City issued an RFP 
in December 2019 to 
solicit 
proposals 
to 
develop 
multifamily 
housing on the 7-acre 
city-owned
piece 
of 
land 
adjacent 
to 
DeSanctis 
Park. 
The 
RFP 
laid 
out 
development goals and 
site challenges. 
Goals: 

Realign Dry Run 
Road to intersect 
with 
Bobwhite 
Street to the south.

Connect Glover School to water and sewer infrastructure. 

Create a parking lot to serve DeSanctis Park. 

Possible connection of Roosevelt Street to Dry Run Road through the park to eliminate 
permanent dead-end street issues in the Cernohous 1st Addition subdivision to the east.
To achieve these goals, staff recognizes that higher density development (i.e. greater than single-
family) would be necessary to justify the infrastructure costs that serve the overall community as 
well as this project. 
Demo Paving
15
Challenges:

DeSanctis Park was funded with a Wisconsin DNR stewardship grant, which restricts 
development of parkland. Therefore, all non-public development must occur within the 7-
acre site. Public road and stormwater may be allowed on park land with permission from 
DNR. 

West Division Street is a minor arterial, and therefore, no new curb cuts for driveways may 
be created on the south side of the development site. 

Site topography has a 4-8% slope across the parcel from West Division Street toward 
DeSanctis Park. 
ANALYSIS 
The City received six proposals with a variety of densities and housing types (i.e. townhomes, 
twin homes, apartments). Staff and Plan Commissioner Woolsey reviewed the proposals and 
provided a recommendation to the City Administrator and Mayor. Three-sixty Real Estate 
Solutions, LLC was selected to move forward with a proposal for four 21-unit townhome-style 
apartment buildings. 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The site is currently zoned R-1 
single family residential.  As 
noted, the city desires a higher 
density at this location which 
will require the establishment of 
a planned unit development 
(PUD). 
Townhomes 
Three-Sixty is proposing four 
townhome-style 
apartment 
buildings to appeal to the young 
professional and empty nester 
markets. The units will be owned and operated by Three-Sixty. Each building will include a mix 
of 1-, 2-, and 3-bedroom townhomes with 21 units per building (84 units total). Each building will 
have 22 attached garage spaces and 27 surface spaces for a total of 196 residential parking stalls. 
Public right-of-way and an additional 24 parking stalls will be created to serve DeSanctis Park. 
Design Elements 
Example images of building design are provided. Design will include a front porch concept facing 
W. Division Street. Garages and surface parking will be accessed from the north of the site 
(DeSanctis Park side). The site will feature outdoor space for residents (e.g. grills, hammocks, 
gazebo, community gardens). Connections to the DeSanctis Park trail system and public sidewalk 
will provide access to the site and the park behind. Landscaping will focus on natives that will 
complement the DeSanctis prairie.
Example Architectural Style 
16
Public Infrastructure 
The project includes the design and 
construction of public infrastructure 
for DeSanctis Park. As described as a 
goal, Dry Run Road will be realigned 
to intersect with Bobwhite Street to 
the south. The project will be 
accessed by a new local road that will 
also provide access and public 
parking 
for 
DeSanctis 
Park. 
Additionally, 
water 
and 
sewer 
infrastructure will be extended to 
Glover School to enable public use of 
that building as a rentable park 
facility. 
Phasing Plan
The project includes four buildings in two phases. Phase 1 includes all public infrastructure 
(streets, sidewalks, park parking, etc.) and the first three buildings. Phase 2 includes the final 
building (western side of side) and its associated parking lot. 
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN ANALYSIS 
The GDP is the first step in the PUD process that provides the conceptual layout of the project. A 
specific implementation plan (SIP) will be prepared if the GDP is approved that will provide 
detailed civil, architectural, and stormwater plans. 
Criteria for GDP Approval 
As a basis for determining the acceptability of a PUD application, the Plan Commission shall 
consider the criteria as listed in 17.72.070, Municipal Code, its consistency with the 
Roof-top patios above garage
17
comprehensive plan and official map, and public benefits. These criteria, with staff’s 
interpretation, are detailed below.  
1.
Community Benefits. The project will provide the following community benefits: 

Fulfills the City’s goals described on page 1. 

Places this 7-acre city-owned site on the tax roll with development.

Creates a new housing product that doesn’t yet exist in River Falls.

Fills 84 units of housing, furthering the needs identified in the City’s Housing Study.
2.
Character and Intensity of Land Use.

The proposed uses and the density, intensity, and general layout are compatible with the 
physical nature of the site, DeSanctis Park, and the surrounding neighborhood 
development. 

The site is adjacent to parkland and close to Westside elementary, ideal for denser 
residential.
3.
Provision of Municipal Services. 

The higher density of the development is beneficial and more efficient from a municipal 
service standpoint.  

Water and sewer are at the site; this is considered an infill project.

The realignment of Dry Run Road
4.
School Enrollment.

The applicant anticipates approximately 20 percent of the 2- and 3-bedroom units may 
contribute to school enrollment. 
5.
Traffic Impacts. 

WisDOT traffic count data shows the average annual daily traffic on W. Division Street 
near the site to be 2,400 vehicles. Based on the ITE (Institute of Transportation Engineers) 
Trip Generation Report, apartments generate approximately seven vehicle trips per day. 
Based on this data, the project could create an additional 588 trips per day, or 60 per peak 
hour, which is comparable to the traffic impacts of a 60 lot single-family subdivision. The 
City Engineer reviewed anticipated traffic counts as they relate to the need for traffic 
signals and found that a signal is not warranted at this intersection. 
6.
Economic Impact.

The total project value is projected to be $17 million. City staff are negotiating a 
developer’s agreement that will outline developer and City-obligations. Projections show 
the project creating a minimum of $210,000 annual tax revenue.
7.
Engineering Design Standards.

Detailed engineering specifications will be provided in the specific implementation plan 
to ensure the project meets engineering and design standards. Staff has reviewed the GDP 
and is confident the proposal is able to meet City standards.
8.
Parks and Open Space.

DeSanctis Park and Glover School are presently underutilized as there is not yet parking 
or water/sewer available to the property. The city hopes to activate the park with this 
development by adding an area for residents to park and improving Glover School for 
18
community use (presently not permitted because of a lack of water/sewer). This will 
further solidify DeSanctis as one of the three “regional parks” in the City. 
9.
Consistency with Comprehensive Plan.

The future land use designation of the site is low-density residential, which is defined as 
“2-4 units per gross acre.” The density of this project is 12 units per acre. As mentioned 
previously, flexibility in density is requested and supported by staff as part of the PUD to 
allow this project to move forward. 
10. Consistency with the Official Map.

The project would create a new public road that will meet the right-of-way width 
requirements. In addition, if the project proceeds, the city will acquire the necessary right-
of-way along W. Division Street via a certified survey map to ensure adequate ROW for 
future roadway improvements. 
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
Staff anticipates the creation of a TID district to aid in the development of this project. Staff is in 
the process of negotiating a development agreement to outline the terms of city and developer 
responsibilities. It is anticipated that a term sheet will be available by the end of July and the 
development agreement to be ready for Council review by summer 2020.
REVIEW PROCESS
Per the Municipal Code, the standard process for PUD GDPs begin with a Plan Commission 
public hearing and recommendation, then City Council review and action. Given the state of 
emergency due to COVID-19, the Plan Commission did not meet on this item. This memorandum 
was provided in lieu of a meeting. Staff received overall supportive comments from 
commissioners. Items of note include:

Increased traffic for the area and its potential impact on West Side School. 

Development bordering the park may not make the park less inviting to people outside the 
neighborhood.

Request by the existing homeowners on Division Street via a Plan Commissioner member 
to adjust at the last (easternmost) building to be situated closer to Division Street.

Development may result in headlights being directed toward the house at 13 Dry Run Road, 
which may be an issue when the foliage is gone in the winter.
CONCLUSION
Staff recommends approval of Resolution to approve the DeSanctis Townhomes General 
Development Plan. 
19
PROPOSED 21 UNIT TOWNHOUSES
3 STORIES TOTAL HEIGHT = 42'
TOTAL AREA = 31,467 SQ FT
22 GARAGE STALLS (1 ACCESSIBLE)
FFE = 909.00
FUTURE 21 UNIT TOWNHOUSES
3 STORIES TOTAL HEIGHT = 42'
TOTAL AREA = 31,467 SQ FT
22 GARAGE STALLS (1 ACCESSIBLE)
FFE = 905.50
PROPOSED 21 UNIT TOWNHOUSES
3 STORIES TOTAL HEIGHT = 42'
TOTAL AREA = 31,467 SQ FT
22 GARAGE STALLS (1 ACCESSIBLE)
FFE = 912.00
PROPOSED 21 UNIT TOWN HOUSES
3 STORIES TOTAL HEIGHT = 42'
TOTAL AREA = 31,467 SQ FT
22 GARAGE STALLS (1 ACCESSIBLE)
FFE = 915.00
0.16
0.33
0.05
0.17
0.14
X
X
FBO
FBO
FBO
FBO
FBO
FBO
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
UTV
G
G
G
G
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
UE
I=890.74
I=891.00
I=891.14
I=890.65
HYD
I=911.39
I=911.20
mon nail-disk
1
905.06
mon 1" id ip
4
933.35
HYD
mon 1" id ip tipped
6
902.81
mon 1" id ip
7
895.20
mon 1" id ip
9
915.84
U
FO
U
U
R=936.00
EX SAN MH
I=930.6 E
STUB TO WEST
HYD
EM
W DIVISION ST
ROOSEVELT ST
BOBWHITE ST
DRY RUN RD
DESANCTIS PARK
23785 C3-SITE ALT
DATE
REVISION SCHEDULE
DESCRIPTION
BY
SHEET
TITLE
PROJECT
WITHOUT PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT.
INC. AND MAY NOT BE USED, COPIED OR DUPLICATED 
THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PROPERTY OF I & S GROUP,
PROJECT NO.
FILE NAME
DESIGNED BY
ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE
DRAWN BY
CLIENT PROJECT NO.
REVIEWED BY
C3-40
-
05/08/2020
19-23785
C3-40 ALTERNATE SITE PLAN
 ---- ---- C3-40
RIVER FALLS
WISCONSIN
SITE PLAN
0
SCALE IN FEET
60
120
---
---
---
DEVELOPMENT
DESANCTIS PARK
PROPOSED ASPHALT PAVEMENT
PROPOSED ASPHALT PATH
FUTURE ASPHALT PAVEMENT
PRELIMINARY NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION  PRELIMINARY NOT FOR CONSTRUCTI
PROPOSED ROADWAY PAVEMENT
PROPOSED CURB & GUTTER, TYP
PROPOSED COMMUNITY SPACE/ GAZEBO,
GRILL, HAMMOCK POLES, PLANTER BOXES
PARKING DATA
TYPE
STALLS PROVIDED
PROPOSED STALLS (SITE)
81
FUTURE STALLS (SITE)
27
PROPOSED STALLS (PARK)
24
PROPOSED INDOOR PARKING
66
FUTURE INDOOR PARKING
22
ACCESSIBLE STALLS
9
TOTAL:
220
POLLINATOR PRARIE
PROPOSED BIKE RACKS
DUMPSTER WITH
LANDSCAPING ENCLOSURE
DUMPSTER WITH
LANDSCAPING ENCLOSURE
PROPOSED SIDEWALK
10'
FUTURE COMMUNITY SPACE/GAZEBO,
GRILL, HAMMOCK POLES, PLANTER BOXES
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
PARK AREA SUMMARY
UNITS
ASPHALT PATH
3,282 SF
IMPERVIOUS AREA (STREETS/PARKING)
44,135 SF
TOTAL IMPERVIOUS COVERAGE
47,417 SF
DENSITY COMPUTATONS
PROPOSED UNITS
63
FUTURE UNITS
21
SITE AREA (AC)
6.30
DENSITY (UNITS/AC)
13.3
SITE AREA SUMMARY
UNITS
PERCENT
PROPOSED BUILDINGS
94,401 SF
35%
FUTURE BUILDING
31,467 SF
11%
ASPHALT PATH
19,667 SF
7%
IMPERVIOUS AREA (PARKING/SIDEWALK)
52,422 SF
19%
FUTURE IMPERVIOUS AREA
(PARKING/SIDEWALK)
17,290 SF
6%
PERVIOUS AREA
59,126 SF
22%
PROPOSED LOT AREA
274,373 SF
100%
PROPOSED ROW
13,960 SF
FUTURE LOT
20,380 SF
TOTAL AREA
308,713 SF
(7.08 AC)
20
RESOLUTION APPROVING THE PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) 
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN (GDP) FOR
DESANCTIS TOWNHOMES
WHEREAS, Three-Sixty Real Estate Solutions, LLC filed an application for a Planned Unit 
Development (PUD) General Development Plan (GDP) known as the DeSanctis Townhomes, 
located on an approximately 7-acre site adjacent to DeSanctis Park; and 
WHEREAS, per the Municipal Code, the standard process for PUD GDPs begin with a Plan 
Commission public hearing and recommendation, then City Council review and action; 
however, under the state of emergency due to COVID-19, the Plan Commission did not meet on 
this item and approval will rest solely with the City Council; and
WHEREAS, in lieu of a meeting to review the proposed GDP, the Plan Commission was
provided a staff report and an opportunity to comment on the draft GDP; and
WHEREAS, the City Council conducted a public hearing on behalf of the Plan Commission on 
June 9, 2020, and after reviewing the staff report found the request to be reasonable;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the City Council of the City of River Falls hereby 
approves the General Development Plan for the DeSanctis Townhomes.  
Dated this 9th day of June 2020.
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
Dan Toland, Mayor
ATTEST:
Amy White, City Clerk
21
3
MEMORANDUM
TO:
Mayor Toland and City Council
FROM:
Crystal Raleigh, City Engineer
Zach Regnier, Civil Engineer
DATE:
June 9, 2020
TITLE:
Resolution Revising Street Names in Sterling Ponds – Change Edenburgh 
Drive to Kingston Street
RECOMMENDED ACTION
Approve resolution changing Edenburgh Drive to Kingston Street.
BACKGROUND
Edenburgh Drive and Kingston Street are existing streets located in the Sterling Ponds 
development. The development was originally preliminary platted in 2004, before the City’s 
street naming policy was created. The preliminary plat was for an all residential development. 
Since then, the development has been modified to include the Sterling Ponds Corporate Park. 
DISCUSSION
The preliminary plat created an intersection where four different named streets come together: 
Kingston Street, Edenburgh Drive, Derby Street, and Kettering Road. 
22
Memorandum to Mayor and City Council
June 9, 2020
Page 2
Image 1: 2004 Preliminary Plat
The current street naming policy prohibits intersections with four or more different street names. 
This is to limit the amount of confusion, especially in an emergency response scenario. An 
intersection with four different streets can pose a safety risk; time spent interpreting signage and 
intersection layout can increase response times. While not ideal, the policy does allow for three 
different street names. It identifies intersections with only two different street names as the 
preferred option.
Changes to the preliminary plat have made Edenburgh Drive into a two-block long street. 
Kingston Street was platted to be one block long. Kingston St is currently stubbed out from the 
intersection of Dundee Ave and Kettering Rd; there is one residential address currently on 
Kingston Street. Kingston Street will be completed in 2020 with the Sterling Ponds 2nd Addition 
development. 
23
Memorandum to Mayor and City Council
June 9, 2020
Page 3
Image 2: Current development conditions
Edenburgh Drive is completed and has one municipal park addressed to it. Changing Edenburgh 
Drive would require an address change for the park. Kettering Rd is stubbed out at the 
intersection of Dundee Ave and Kingston Street; it is planned to be completed with a future phase 
of development. 
Several options were reviewed for the naming convention of the streets in this neighborhood. The 
option that met the City street naming policy and had no effect on existing addresses, other than 
the City park, was to eliminate Edenburgh Drive and rename it to Kingston Street. 
Image 3: Proposed street names
24
Memorandum to Mayor and City Council
June 9, 2020
Page 4
The traditional process for street naming requires City Council to either rejected or forwarded to 
the Plan Commission for further consideration. If forwarded, the Plan Commission makes a 
recommendation to City Council regarding the renaming. Finally, a Public Hearing shall be held 
by City Council prior to taking action to officially rename the street. Given the declared state of 
emergency due to COVID-19, the Plan Commission did not meet to review this item.
CONCLUSION
In order to conform with the street naming policy and due to development changes since the 
preliminary plat, staff recommends renaming Edenburgh Drive to Kingston Street. 
25
RESOLUTION NO. 
APPROVING STREET RENAMING IN STERLING PONDS
WHEREAS, the final plat for Sterling Ponds 2nd Addition creates an intersection that is not 
compliant with the City’s Street Naming Policy because four different streets are located within 
the same intersection, leading to confusion for drivers; and        
WHEREAS, renaming Edenburgh Drive to Kingston Street will bring the intersection into 
compliance with the Street Naming Policy without affecting any current resident addresses, and 
will provide for a safer intersection by lessening confusion; and
WHEREAS, the standard process for street name revision includes a Public Hearing, Plan 
Commission review and recommendation, then City Council review and action; however, given 
the declared state of emergency due to COVID-19, the Plan Commission did not meet to review 
this item; and
   
WHEREAS, the Common Council reviewed this item at its regular meeting of June 9, 2020 and 
found it to be acceptable.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Common Council for the City of River Falls 
hereby approves the renaming of Edenburgh Drive to Kingston Street.
Dated this ___ day of __________ 2020.
Dan Toland, Mayor
ATTEST:
Amy White, City Clerk
26
4
MEMORANDUM
TO:
Mayor Toland and City Council
FROM:
Amy Peterson, Community Development Director
DATE:
June 9, 2020
TITLE:
Ordinance Amending the Official Traffic Control Map, Speed Limit on South 
Main Street from Cemetery Rd north to UWRF Falcon Center entrance – First
Reading
RECOMMENDED ACTION
Adopt Ordinance approving a speed limit of 25 mph on South Main Street from Cemetery Road 
north to UWRF Falcon Center entrance.
BACKGROUND
1300 South Main redevelopment project is a 50-unit affordable housing development to be 
developed by Gerrard Corporation, LLC and owned and managed by the West Central Wisconsin 
Community Action Agency, Inc. (WestCAP). The building includes first-floor walkout units, with 
a unit mix that includes 20 1-bedrooms, 19 2-bedrooms, and 11 3-bedrooms, with 8 units reserved 
for disabled veterans. Amenities include a community room and a training/service focus space, 
washer/dryer in each unit, air conditioning, and in-floor heat. The project is anticipated to break 
ground early summer 2020 and be ready for occupancy in 2021. Many funding sources are coming 
together to bring this project online including the Wisconsin Housing and Economic 
Development Authority (WHEDA), the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB), City of River Falls, 
WestCAP, Gerrard Corporation and the Wisconsin Department of Administration (WIDOA).
WIDOA provided $500,000 to the project to support the affordable housing for low-income 
individuals. This funding comes through WIDOA from the U.S. Department of Housing and 
Urban Development (HUD) and the awardee agrees to enforce the caps on rent and abide by the 
income limits set by HUD for a required affordability period. HUD regulations as part of the 
grant award process is that noise levels on site need to be at 75dB or less. This required the 
developer to push the building as far east on the lot as possible, and even then the noise level was 
27
Memorandum to Mayor and City Council
May 8, 2018
Page 2
too high. The way to get to an acceptable HUD noise level standard is to reduce the speed of 
traffic on South Main Street. 
DISCUSSION
Currently the speed limit on South Main from Cemetery Road to just north of Kwik Trip is 35 
mph. The City’s typical process to change speed limits is to complete a traffic study that supports 
the change. The last speed study for this area was completed in 2019, and staff discussed changes 
in the area with the City’s traffic consultant and concluded that a speed limit of 25 mph could not 
be supported by the data at this time. Data does suggest that people drive the speed they feel 
most comfortable at for conditions, not necessarily the posted speed limit. This could pose a 
challenge for enforcement and could decrease safety. However, a 25mph speed limit in both 
directions is what is required to reduce the noise at the 1300 South Main site to HUD’s acceptable 
threshold.
In September 2019, when funding for the project was coming together, staff made the decision, 
that in order to keep the project moving forward, the speed limit would need to be changed. The 
only alternative would have been to build a berm or wall between the building and South Main 
Street. This was stated in the January 28, 2020 staff report for the Approval of the Specific 
Implementation Plan for 1300 South Main Street.
It is important to note that the $500,000 grant is available because WestCAP, the future property 
owner is an established Community Housing Development Organization (CHODO) with the 
mission to develop affordable housing for the communities it serves. This funding will stay with 
WestCAP to return into the region whether it be through more Section 8 vouchers or other 
supportive housing opportunities. This project will include deep subsidy units, similar to the 
River Falls Housing Authority, which has long wait lists.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
None.
CONCLUSION
28
Memorandum to Mayor and City Council
May 8, 2018
Page 3
While standard city policy is for a traffic study to support a speed limit change, this is a special 
circumstance in support of the low to moderate income housing project. Staff recommends 
approval of Ordinance approving a speed limit of 25 mph on South Main Street from Cemetery 
Road north to UWRF Falcon Center entrance. 
29
ORDINANCE NO. 
AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING THE OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL MAP
OF THE CITY OF RIVER FALLS
(Speed Limit on South Main Street from Cemetery Road to the UWRF Falcon Center entrance) 
THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RIVER FALLS DOES HEREBY 
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS.
Section 1.  
The Official Traffic Control Map adopted pursuant to Section 10.08.010A 
of the Municipal Code of the City of River Falls, Wisconsin is hereby amended and recreated as 
follows:
South Main Street 
Establish speed limit of 25 miles per hour on South Main Street from Cemetery Road to 
the entrance of UWRF Falcon Center, in both directions.
Section 2: 
The Operations Director shall erect such signs and marking changes as are 
necessary to give adequate notice of the restrictions, prohibitions and limitations as shown on the 
Official Traffic Control Map.
Section 3:
The Ordinance shall take effect the date after passage and publication as 
provided by law.  
FOR THE CITY OF RIVER FALLS
Dan Toland, Mayor
ATTEST:
Amy White, City Clerk
Adopted:        
Published:
30
5
MEMORANDUM
TO:
Mayor Toland and City Council
FROM:
Brandy Howe, Senior Planner 
DATE:
June 9, 2020
TITLE:
Resolution Approving Sterling Ponds 2nd Addition Final Plat 
RECOMMENDED ACTION
Approve Resolution regarding Sterling Ponds 2nd Addition Final Plat. 
BACKGROUND
GMTZ, LLC applied for final plat approval for the Sterling Ponds 2nd Addition. The preliminary 
plat for the entire, multi-phased Sterling Ponds development was originally approved by the Plan 
Commission in May 2003. To date, the following development phases have been platted and are 
either completed or under construction: Sterling Ponds, Sterling Ponds 1st Addition, Sterling 
Heights, Villas of Sterling Ponds Phases 1-3. In addition, the Aberdeen, Hope Lutheran Church, 
and the Sterling Ponds Corporate Park have been planned and developed. Since 2003, the
Common Council has approved several 60-month (5-year) extensions to complete all remaining 
phases of the development, the most recent approval in spring 2017. Approximately four phases 
remain to be platted in Sterling Ponds in the coming years.
ANALYSIS 
Sterling Ponds 2nd Addition is an 18-lot 
single-family subdivision that continues to 
the southeast of the original Sterling Ponds 
plat. Lots range in size from 9,300 to 12,300 
square feet in size.
1.
Consistency with Official Map
The final plat is consistent with the 
Official 
Map. 
The 
right-of-way 
requirement for collector streets is 66 
feet. 
Kingston 
Street 
meets 
this 
standard.
Official Map snippet
31
2.
Consistency with Comprehensive Plan 
The future land use map identifies this area as low density residential, which means density 
should fall within 2-4 dwelling units per acre. The proposed layout creates 18 lots at 3.2
dwelling units per acre, which meets the comprehensive plan recommendation. 
3.
Consistency with Preliminary Plat
The final plat matches and is therefore consistent with the approved preliminary plat (Exhibit 
1). 
4.
Consistency with Subdivision Ordinance
The final plat meets all subdivision ordinance requirements except one; a midblock sidewalk 
for blocks longer than 700 feet. The developer requested that midblock sidewalk not be 
required on the SE side of Kingston Street. Staff recommends approval of this modification 
because these midblock sidewalks have proven to be maintenance issues in this 
neighborhood.
5.
Consistency with Zoning Ordinance
The area is zoned Traditional Neighborhood Development (TND) which should contain a mix 
of residential uses with approximately 70% being single family and twins. Staff has been closely 
monitoring the housing mix ratios as final plats come forward. With the addition of this 
Sterling Ponds 2nd Addition (as well as Sterling Ponds Cottages, which is also on the agenda 
for June 9, 2020), the mix will consist of 63% single family/twin lots. However, once the final 
phases of Sterling Ponds are platted, staff anticipates this ratio may rise to 70-72% based on 
the preliminary plat and early conceptual plans; which staff considers to be reasonably close 
to comply with the TND requirement. 
32
6.
Consistency with Developer’s Agreement
A 2003 Developer’s Agreement for Sterling Ponds and a 2017 addendum to said agreement 
controls the Sterling Ponds development phases, including this 2nd Addition. Staff will ensure 
compliance with these agreements prior to recording of the final plat and prior to issuance of 
a certificate of completion for the development. 
7.
Engineering Plans and Technical Specifications 
The engineering plans, stormwater plan, and technical specifications were reviewed by staff 
and meet all municipal ordinances and engineering standards. These documents were 
approved by the City Engineer and Utility Director on April 13, 2020. The final plat is fully 
consistent with those documents. 
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
Assuming a conservative $235,000 value, the estimated tax revenue for the development will be 
$88,830 annually.
REVIEW PROCESS
Per the Municipal Code, the standard process for final plats begins with Plan Commission review 
and recommendation, then City Council review and action. Given the state of emergency due to 
COVID-19, the Plan Commission did not meet during the month of May to review this plat. To 
allow this item to move forward, the City Council referred the final plat to the Plan Commission 
for comment during a 30-day waiting period, as is required per Wis. Stat. §62.23(5). One 
comment was received from a Plan Commissioner noting an error in the legend, which 
was corrected by the applicant.
CONCLUSION
Staff recommends approval of Resolution to approve the Sterling Ponds 2nd Addition Final Plat. 
EXHIBITS
1.
Sterling Ponds Preliminary Plat
2.
Final Plat, Sterling Ponds 2nd Addition
33
EXHIBIT 1: Sterling Ponds Preliminary Plat 
34
RESOLUTION NO. 
APPROVING STERLING PONDS 2nd ADDITION FINAL PLAT
WHEREAS, GMTZ, LLC submitted a final plat for approval in April 2020 for the Sterling Ponds 
2nd Addition; and       
WHEREAS, per the Municipal Code, the standard process for final plat approval includes Plan 
Commission review and recommendation, then City Council review and action; however, given 
the declared state of emergency due to COVID-19, the Plan Commission did not meet during the 
month of May to review this plat. To allow this item to move forward, the City Council referred 
the final plat to the Plan Commission for 30-days, as is required per Wis. Stat. §62.23(5), on April 
28, 2020; and
   
WHEREAS, staff reviewed the final plat and found it to be consistent with plans and ordinances 
and is in substantial conformance to the preliminary plat, as is required by Section 16.08.030(C) 
of the Municipal Code and Section 236, Wis. Stats. and recommends approval subject to the 
following conditions: 
1.
All of the developer obligations shall be satisfactorily met as outlined in the May 27, 2003 
Developer’s Agreement between Arcon Development (and its successors) and the City of 
River Falls for Sterling Ponds and the 2017 addendum of said agreement.
2.
The final plat shall not be recorded until the City has received an irrevocable letter of credit 
in accordance with the Developer’s Agreement for all public improvements that are required 
to be installed in accordance with the plans and specifications; and
WHEREAS, the Common Council reviewed this item at its regular meeting of June 9, 2020 and 
found it to be acceptable.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Common Council for the City of River Falls 
hereby approves the final plat of Sterling Ponds 2nd Addition subject to the above conditions being 
met prior to recording of the final plat.
Dated this 9th day of June 2020.
Dan Toland, Mayor
ATTEST:
Amy White, City Clerk
35
SET 1-1/4" X 18" LONG IRON BAR, WEIGHING
4.173 LBS. PER LINEAR FOOT
FOUND ALUMINUM COUNTY SECTION CORNER MONUMENT
LEGEND
DRAINAGE EASEMENT
FOUND 2-3/8" OUTSIDE DIAMETER IRON PIPE
STERLING PONDS SECOND ADDITION
THE SOUTH LINE OF THE SW1/4 OF
SECTION 24 BEARS N89°29'47"E BASED
ON THE ST. CROIX COUNTY
COORDINATE SYSTEM
N
SCALE IN FEET
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
SCALE:
50
0
100
ALL OTHER LOT CORNERS MONUMENTED
WITH 1" OUTSIDE DIAMETER BY 18" LONG IRON
PIPE WEIGHING 1.13 LBS. PER LINEAR FOOT.
PUBLIC WALKWAY / DRAINAGE EASEMENT
TO THE CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NW      1/4
SW     1/4
NE        1/4
SE    1/4
CHAPMAN DR.
HUPPERT ST.
C.T.H. "U"
U.S.H. "35"
KINGSBARN AVE.
NEWCASTLE DR.
N
S
&
CITY OF RIVER FALLS, ST. CROIX COUNTY, WISCONSIN
DCK
DJZ
4/13/2020
5266-013-Final Plat
5266-013
THIS INSTRUMENT DRAFTED BY: DAVID C. KRUSCHKE JOB NO. 5266-013   DATE: 4/13/2020, Revised 5/29/20
UTILITY EASEMENT DEFINED
AN UNOBSTRUCTED EASEMENT FOR THE CONSTRUCTION AND
MAINTENANCE OF ALL NECESSARY OVERHEAD, UNDERGROUND OR
SURFACE PUBLIC UTILITIES, INCLUDING RIGHTS TO CONDUCT
TRIMMING ON SAID EASEMENT. THIS EASEMENT SHALL HAVE NO
PERMANENT OBSTRUCTIONS (FENCES, TREES, SHRUBS OR OTHER
OBSTACLES) THAT INTERFERE WITH INSTALLATION, FUNCTION, OR
MAINTENANCE OF UTILITY SYSTEMS.  PUBLIC UTILITIES SHALL NOT BE
HELD LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGE TO PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
DRAINAGE EASEMENT DEFINED
AN UNOBSTRUCTED EASEMENT DEDICATED TO THE CITY OF RIVER
FALLS FOR THE CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF ALL
NECESSARY UNDERGROUND OR SURFACE DRAINAGE FACILITIES,
INCLUDING RIGHTS TO CONDUCT TRIMMING ON SAID EASEMENT. THIS
EASEMENT SHALL HAVE NO PERMANENT OBSTRUCTIONS (FENCES,
TREES, SHRUBS OR OTHER OBSTACLES) THAT INTERFERE WITH
INSTALLATION, FUNCTION, OR MAINTENANCE OF DRAINAGE SYSTEMS.
CITY SHALL NOT BE HELD LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGE TO PROHIBITED
OBSTRUCTIONS.
PUBLIC WALKWAY EASEMENT DEFINED
AN UNOBSTRUCTED EASEMENT GRANTED TO THE CITY OF RIVER FALLS FOR THE
PURPOSE OF FOUR SEASON PEDESTRIAN AND NON-MOTORIZED
TRANSPORTATION USES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WALKING, RUNNING,
BICYCLING, SKIING AND IN-LINE SKATING INCLUDING RIGHTS TO CONDUCT
TRIMMING ON SAID EASEMENT. THIS EASEMENT SHALL HAVE NO PERMANENT
OBSTRUCTIONS (FENCES, TREES, SHRUBS OR OTHER OBSTACLES) THAT INTERFERE
WITH INSTALLATION, FUNCTION, OR MAINTENANCE OF WALKWAY. CITY SHALL
NOT BE HELD LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGE TO PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS. SNOW
AND ICE REMOVAL FOR A HARD SURFACE PATHWAY OR WALKWAY IN THE
EASEMENT IS THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNER(S).
LOT
LOT
UTILITY EASEMENTS AS HEREIN SET FORTH ARE
GRANTED TO THE FOLLOWING UTILITY PROVIDERS:
RIVER FALLS MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
A T & T
COMCAST
BALDWIN LIGHTSTREAM
ST. CROIX VALLEY NATURAL GAS
REAR EASEMENT
FOR DRAINAGE ONLY
There are no objections to this plat with respect to 
Secs. 236.15, 236.16, 236.20 and 236.21(1) and (2),
Wis Stats. as provided by s. 236.12, Wis. Stats.
Certified __________________, 20_____
Department of Administration
36
STATE OF WISCONSIN)
    COUNTY OF ST. CROIX)SS
I, SARAH KARLSSON, BEING THE DULY ELECTED, QUALIFIED AND ACTING FINANCE DIRECTOR OF THE
CITY OF RIVER FALLS, DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RECORDS IN MY OFFICE,
THERE ARE NO UNPAID TAXES OR SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS AS OF _________________  AFFECTING THE
LAND INCLUDED IN THE PLAT OF STERLING PONDS SECOND ADDITION.
_____________________________                  _________________________
SARAH KARLSSON                                           DATE
FINANCE DIRECTOR
STATE OF WISCONSIN)
    COUNTY OF ST. CROIX)SS
I, DENISE ANDERSON, BEING THE DULY ELECTED, QUALIFIED AND ACTING TREASURER OF ST. CROIX
COUNTY, DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE RECORDS IN MY OFFICE SHOW NO UNREDEEMED TAX SALES
AND NO UNPAID TAXES OR SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS AS OF __________________ AFFECTING THE LAND
INCLUDED IN THE PLAT OF STERLING PONDS SECOND ADDITION.
__________________________________                ________________________
DENISE ANDERSON,                                                  DATE
COUNTY TREASURER
RESOLVED, THAT THE PLAT OF STERLING PONDS SECOND ADDITION, IN THE CITY OF RIVER
FALLS, GMTZ LLC, OWNER, IS HEREBY APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
_______________________________              _________________
DAN TOLAND                                                     DATE
MAYOR
I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE FOREGOING IS A COPY OF A RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE
CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RIVER FALLS.
_______________________________              _________________
AMY WHITE
                                              DATE
CITY CLERK
GMTZ LLC, A LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY DULY ORGANIZED AND EXISTING UNDER AND BY VIRTUE OF
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN, AS OWNER, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY THAT SAID LIMITED
LIABILITY COMPANY CAUSED THE LAND DESCRIBED ON THIS PLAT TO BE SURVEYED, DIVIDED,
MAPPED AND DEDICATED AS REPRESENTED ON THIS PLAT. GMTZ LLC, DOES FURTHER CERTIFY THAT
THIS PLAT IS REQUIRED BY S.236.10 OR S.236.12 TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE FOLLOWING FOR
APPROVAL OR OBJECTION: CITY OF RIVER FALLS, DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION AND ST. CROIX
COUNTY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE SAID GMTZ LLC, HAS CAUSED THESE PRESENTS TO BE SIGNED BY
JEFFREY J. HUSBY, MEMBER AND AARON M. CLAY, MEMBER, THIS ______ DAY OF _____________,
20____.
IN THE PRESENCE OF:
GMTZ, LLC
__________ ________________________
___________________________________
JEFFREY J. HUSBY -  MEMBER
AARON M. CLAY - MEMBER
STATE OF _____________)
COUNTY OF____________)SS.
PERSONALLY CAME BEFORE ME THIS _____ DAY OF ____________, 20___, JEFFEREY J. HUSBY,
MEMBER AND AARON M. CLAY, MEMBER OF THE ABOVE NAMED LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY, TO ME
KNOWN TO BE THE PERSONS WHO EXECUTED THE FOREGOING INSTRUMENT, AND TO ME KNOWN TO
BE SUCH MEMBERS OF SAID LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY, AND ACKNOWLEDGED THAT THEY
EXECUTED THE FOREGOING INSTRUMENT AS SUCH MEMBERS AS THE DEED OF SAID LIMITED
LIABILITY COMPANY, BY ITS AUTHORITY.
__________ ______________________
__________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES
N
S
&
CITY OF RIVER FALLS, ST. CROIX COUNTY, WISCONSIN
DCK
DJZ
4/13/2020
5266-013-Final Plat
5266-013
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF RIVER FALLS, A CORPORATION DULY ORGANIZED AND EXISTING UNDER
AND BY VIRTUE OF THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN, MORTGAGEE OF THE LAND DESCRIBED
IN STERLING PONDS SECOND ADDITION, DOES HEREBY CONSENT TO THE SURVEYING, DIVIDING,
MAPPING, AND DEDICATION OF THE LAND DESCRIBED ON THIS PLAT, AND DOES HEREBY CONSENT TO
THE ABOVE CERTIFICATE OF GMTZ, LLC, OWNER.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE SAID FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF RIVER FALLS HAS CAUSED THESE
PRESENTS TO BE SIGNED BY MATTHEW RUSSELL, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT,  AND ITS CORPORATE
SEAL TO BE HEREUNTO AFFIXED.
THIS ___________  DAY OF ____________________, 20______.
IN THE PRESENCE OF:
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF RIVER FALLS
______________________________________________
MATTHEW RUSSELL, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT
       STATE OF WISCONSIN)
COUNTY OF ____________)SS
PERSONALLY CAME BEFORE ME THIS ______ DAY OF ___________, 20 ___, MATTHEW RUSSELL,
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE ABOVE NAMED CORPORATION, TO ME KNOWN TO BE THE
PERSON WHO EXECUTED THE FOREGOING INSTRUMENT, AND TO ME KNOWN TO BE SUCH EXECUTIVE
VICE PRESIDENT OF SAID CORPORATION AND ACKNOWLEDGED THAT HE EXECUTED THE FOREGOING
INSTRUMENT AS SUCH OFFICER AS THE DEED OF SAID CORPORATION, BY ITS AUTHORITY.
__________________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC
_________________________________
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES
STERLING PONDS SECOND ADDITION
THIS INSTRUMENT DRAFTED BY: DAVID C. KRUSCHKE JOB NO. 5266-013   DATE: 4/13/2020, Revised 5/29/20
I, Douglas J. Zahler, Professional Wisconsin Land Surveyor, hereby certify: that in full compliance with the
provisions of Chapter 236 of the Wisconsin Statutes and the subdivision regulations of the City of River Falls, and
under the direction of GMTZ LLC, owner of said land, I have surveyed, divided and mapped STERLING PONDS
SECOND ADDITION; that such plat correctly represents all exterior boundaries and the subdivision of the land
surveyed; and that this plat is located in part of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter, part of the
Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter and part of the Northeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of
Section 24, Township 28 North, Range 19 West, described as follows:
Commencing at the Southwest corner of said Section 24; thence, along the south line of Southwest Quarter of said
Section 24, N 89° 29' 47" E a distance of 1000.91 feet; thence, N 00° 30' 13" W a distance of 750.09 feet to the
Point of Beginning; thence, N 16° 20' 31" E a distance of 122.00 feet; thence northeasterly a distance of 23.56 feet
along the southerly line of Kingston Street, being the arc of a 15.00 foot radius curve, concave southeasterly, with
a central angle of 90⁰00'00”, and a chord that bears N61⁰20'31”E for a distance of 21.21 feet;  thence N 16° 20'
31" E a distance of 66.00 feet; thence, along the southerly line of Block 2 of the plat of Sterling Ponds, S 73° 39' 29"
E for a distance of 23.01 feet; thence easterly a distance of 56.26 feet along last said line, being the arc of a 267.00
foot radius curve, concave northerly, with a central angle of 12⁰04'25”, and a chord that bears S 79° 41' 42" E for a
distance of 56.16 feet; thence, along the easterly line of Lots 1 through 8, Block 2, of said Sterling Ponds, N 38° 26'
55" E a distance of 631.49 feet; thence, along the southerly line of Lot 12, Block 2, of said Sterling Ponds, S 51° 33'
05" E a distance of 117.00 feet; thence, along the westerly line of Dundee Avenue, S 38° 26' 55" W for a distance
of 4.05 feet; thence, S 51° 33' 05" E for a distance of 66.00 feet; thence easterly a distance of 23.56 feet along the
easterly line of Dundee Avenue, being the arc of a 15.00 foot radius curve, concave southerly, with a central angle
of 90⁰00'00”, and a chord that bears N 83° 26' 55" E for a distance of 21.21 feet; thence, along the southerly line
of Kettering Road, S 51° 33' 05" E for a distance of 112.02 feet; thence southeasterly a distance of 9.99 feet along
last said line, being the arc of a 170.00 foot radius curve, concave southwesterly, with a central angle of 3⁰21'55”,
and a chord that bears S 49° 52' 08" E for a distance of 9.98 feet; thence, S 38° 26' 55" W for a distance of 404.71
feet; thence, S 42° 23' 51" W for a distance of 94.90 feet; thence, S 54° 09' 13" W for a distance of 100.52 feet;
thence, S 66° 25' 52" W for a distance of 100.52 feet; thence, S 78° 42' 32" W for a distance of 100.52 feet; thence,
N 89° 00' 49" W for a distance of 100.52 feet; thence, N 76° 43' 27" W a distance of 113.45 feet to the Point of
Beginning.  Containing 5.62 acres of land.
Dated this 29th day of May, 2020.
_________________________________________
Douglas J. Zahler
Auth Consulting & Associates
2920 Enloe Street, Suite 101
Hudson, WI 54016
715-386-2007
37
6
MEMORANDUM
TO:
Mayor Toland and City Council
FROM:
Brandy Howe, Senior Planner 
DATE:
June 9, 2020
TITLE:
Resolution Approving Sterling Ponds Cottages Final Plat 
RECOMMENDED ACTION
Approve Resolution regarding Sterling Ponds Cottages Final Plat. 
BACKGROUND
E.W. Homes is seeking final plat approval 
for the Sterling Ponds Cottages. The 
preliminary plat was approved by Plan 
Commission on February 4, 2020.
ANALYSIS 
The project
is an
18-lot twin-home
subdivision at the southeast corner of 
Chapman Drive and Huppert Street. The 
plan extends New Castle Drive to the 
northeast to terminate in a cul-de-sac and 
the two outlots will be maintained by a 
homeowner’s association. 
1.
Consistency with Official Map
The final plat is consistent with the 
Official Map.
2.
Consistency with Comprehensive Plan 
The future land use map identifies Sterling Ponds as a Traditional Neighborhood
Development (TND) and this area specifically is called out for neighborhood commercial. 
Market conditions, ownership, and development interests have changed in the 15+ years since 
the comprehensive plan was approved, and it has been determined by the developer and staff
that commercial is not viable at this corner at this time. Staff supports residential at this 
38
location with the caveat that commercial development may occur elsewhere within Sterling 
Ponds. A handful of lots remain in the overall Sterling Ponds development area that may be 
suitable for commercial. Staff continues monitor new development proposals as they come in 
to ensure a space is reserved for commercial in the overall development per the 
comprehensive plan and the TND zoning.
3.
Consistency with Preliminary Plat
The final plat matches and is therefore consistent with the approved preliminary plat
(enclosed). 
4.
Consistency with Subdivision Ordinance
The final plat meets all subdivision ordinance requirements.
5.
Consistency with Zoning Ordinance
The area is zoned Traditional Neighborhood Development (TND) which should contain a mix 
of residential uses with approximately 70% being single family and twins. Staff has been closely 
monitoring the housing mix ratios as final plats come forward. With the addition of this 
Sterling Ponds Cottages (as well as Sterling Ponds 2nd Addition, which is also on the agenda 
for June 9, 2020), the mix will consist of 63% single family/twin lots. However, once the final 
phases of Sterling Ponds are platted, staff anticipates this ratio may rise to 70-72% based on 
the preliminary plat and early conceptual plans; which staff considers to be reasonably close 
to comply with the TND requirement. 
6.
Consistency with Developer’s Agreement
A 2003 Developer’s Agreement for Sterling Ponds controls this development site. Section
2.2(f) of the agreement requires construction of a 5-foot sidewalk on both sides of all streets. 
Sidewalk will be constructed on both sides of Newcastle Drive, but sidewalk will not be added 
to the northeast side of Triton Avenue, which is a private street. In its approval of the 
preliminary plat, the Plan Commission waived the two-sided sidewalk requirement for Triton 
Avenue. An amendment to the developer’s agreement is provided by staff to address this 
item (see Council agenda item 7). No other deviations from the developer’s agreement are 
noted.
7.
Engineering Plans and Technical Specifications 
The engineering plans, stormwater plan, and technical specifications were reviewed by staff 
and meet all municipal ordinances and engineering standards. These documents were 
approved by the City Engineer and Utility Director on April 16, 2020. The final plat is fully 
consistent with those documents.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
Assuming a conservative $225,000 value, the development will yield approximately $85,050 in 
tax revenue annually.
39
REVIEW PROCESS
Per the Municipal Code, the standard process for final plats begins with Plan Commission review 
and recommendation, then City Council review and action. Given the state of emergency due to 
COVID-19, the Plan Commission did not meet during the month of May to review this plat. To 
allow this item to move forward, the City Council referred the final plat to the Plan Commission 
for a 30-day waiting period, as is required per Wis. Stat. §62.23(5). Staff received comments from 
commissioners with summarized items of note as follows:

An error was identified in the legend which was being corrected by the applicant.

A question was raised regarding the dedication of funds in lieu of land for parkland. After a 
cursory review of the Sterling Ponds development history and the approved Sterling Ponds 
Park Plan, staff determined that parkland dedication requirements for this subdivision has 
been satisfied. However, this is a complicated development with many changes over the years 
and thus staff is requesting assistance from the City Attorney. Once a recommendation from 
the Attorney has been rendered, staff will implement fees in lieu of dedication if necessary. 
CONCLUSION
Staff recommends approval of Resolution to approve the Sterling Ponds Cottages. 
40
EXHIBIT 1: Sterling Ponds Preliminary Plat 
41
RESOLUTION NO. 
APPROVING STERLING PONDS COTTAGES FINAL PLAT
WHEREAS, E.W. Homes submitted a final plat for the Sterling Ponds Cottages; and               
WHEREAS, per the Municipal Code, the standard process for final plat approval includes Plan 
Commission review and recommendation, then City Council review and action; however, given 
the declared state of emergency due to COVID-19, the Plan Commission did not meet during the 
month of May to review this plat. To allow this item to move forward, the City Council referred 
the final plat to the Plan Commission for 30-days, as is required per Wis. Stat. §62.23(5), on April 
28, 2020; and 
WHEREAS, staff reviewed the final plat and found it to be consistent with plans and ordinances 
and is in substantial conformance to the preliminary plat, as is required by Section 16.08.030(C) 
of the Municipal Code and Section 236, Wis. Stats. and recommends approval subject to the 
following conditions: 
1.
All of the developer obligations shall be satisfactorily met as outlined in the May 27, 2003 
Developer’s Agreement between Arcon Development (and its successors) and the City of 
River Falls for Sterling Ponds and the 2017 addendum of said agreement. 
2.
The final plat shall not be recorded until the City has received an irrevocable letter of credit 
in accordance with the Developer’s Agreement for all public improvements that are required 
to be installed in accordance with the plans and specifications; and
WHEREAS, the Common Council reviewed this item at its regular meeting of June 9, 2020 and 
found it to be acceptable.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Common Council for the City of River Falls 
hereby approves the final plat of Sterling Ponds Cottages subject to the above conditions being 
met prior to recording of the final plat.
Dated this 9th day of June 2020.
Dan Toland, Mayor
ATTEST:
Amy White, City Clerk
42
SET 1-1/4" X 18" LONG IRON BAR, WEIGHING
4.173 LBS. PER LINEAR FOOT
FOUND 3-1/2" ALUMINUM COUNTY SECTION CORNER
MONUMENT
LEGEND
EXISTING UTILITY EASEMENT
FOUND 2" OUTSIDE DIAMETER IRON PIPE
FOUND 3/4" OUTSIDE DIAMETER IRON BAR
N
S
&
CITY OF RIVER FALLS, ST. CROIX COUNTY, WISCONSIN
DCK
DJZ
04/13/2020
Sterling Ponds Cottages Final Plat
5010-162
STERLING PONDS COTTAGES
THE NORTH-SOUTH 1/4 LINE OF SECTION
24 BEARS N00°06'21"E BASED UPON THE
ST. CROIX COUNTY COORDINATE SYSTEM
N
SCALE IN FEET
UTILITY EASEMENT DEFINED
AN UNOBSTRUCTED EASEMENT FOR THE CONSTRUCTION AND
MAINTENANCE OF ALL NECESSARY OVERHEAD, UNDERGROUND OR
SURFACE PUBLIC UTILITIES, INCLUDING RIGHTS TO CONDUCT
TRIMMING ON SAID EASEMENT. THIS EASEMENT SHALL HAVE NO
PERMANENT OBSTRUCTIONS (FENCES, TREES, SHRUBS OR OTHER
OBSTACLES) THAT INTERFERE WITH INSTALLATION, FUNCTION, OR
MAINTENANCE OF UTILITY SYSTEMS.  PUBLIC UTILITIES SHALL NOT BE
HELD LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGE TO PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
DRAINAGE EASEMENT DEFINED
AN UNOBSTRUCTED EASEMENT DEDICATED TO THE CITY OF RIVER
FALLS FOR THE CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF ALL
NECESSARY UNDERGROUND OR SURFACE DRAINAGE FACILITIES,
INCLUDING RIGHTS TO CONDUCT TRIMMING ON SAID EASEMENT. THIS
EASEMENT SHALL HAVE NO PERMANENT OBSTRUCTIONS (FENCES,
TREES, SHRUBS OR OTHER OBSTACLES) THAT INTERFERE WITH
INSTALLATION, FUNCTION, OR MAINTENANCE OF DRAINAGE SYSTEMS.
CITY SHALL NOT BE HELD LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGE TO PROHIBITED
OBSTRUCTIONS.
There are no objections to this plat with respect to 
Secs. 236.15, 236.16, 236.20 and 236.21(1) and (2),
Wis Stats. as provided by s. 236.12, Wis. Stats.
Certified __________________, 20_____
Department of Administration
THIS INSTRUMENT DRAFTED BY: DAVID C. KRUSCHKE JOB NO. 5010-162   DATE: 04/17/2020
SCALE:
50
0
100
ALL OTHER LOT CORNERS MONUMENTED
WITH 1" OUTSIDE DIAMETER BY 18" LONG IRON
PIPE WEIGHING 1.13 LBS. PER LINEAR FOOT.
LOT
LOT
EXISTING DRAINAGE EASEMENT
NW      1/4
SW     1/4
NE        1/4
SE    1/4
CHAPMAN DR.
HUPPERT ST.
C.T.H. "U"
U.S.H. "35"
KINGSBARN AVE.
NEWCASTLE DR.
EXISTING ACCESS EASEMENT
UTILITY EASEMENTS AS HEREIN SET FORTH ARE
GRANTED TO THE FOLLOWING UTILITY PROVIDERS:
RIVER FALLS MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
A T & T
COMCAST
BALDWIN LIGHTSTREAM
ST. CROIX VALLEY NATURAL GAS
PK
FOUND MASONRY (PK) NAIL
FOUND CHISELED "X"
DRAINAGE / UTILITY EASEMENT
DRAINAGE / PUBLIC WALKWAY EASEMENT
PUBLIC WALKWAY EASEMENT DEFINED
AN UNOBSTRUCTED EASEMENT GRANTED TO THE CITY OF RIVER FALLS FOR THE
PURPOSE OF FOUR SEASON PEDESTRIAN AND NON-MOTORIZED
TRANSPORTATION USES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WALKING, RUNNING,
BICYCLING, SKIING AND IN-LINE SKATING INCLUDING RIGHTS TO CONDUCT
TRIMMING ON SAID EASEMENT. THIS EASEMENT SHALL HAVE NO PERMANENT
OBSTRUCTIONS (FENCES, TREES, SHRUBS OR OTHER OBSTACLES) THAT INTERFERE
WITH INSTALLATION, FUNCTION, OR MAINTENANCE OF WALKWAY. CITY SHALL
NOT BE HELD LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGE TO PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS. SNOW
AND ICE REMOVAL FOR A HARD SURFACE PATHWAY OR WALKWAY IN THE
EASEMENT IS THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE HOME OWNERS ASSOCIATION.
REAR EASEMENT
FOR DRAINAGE ONLY
DRAINAGE EASEMENT
43
STERLING PONDS COTTAGES
STATE OF WISCONSIN)
    COUNTY OF ST. CROIX)SS
I, SARAH KARLSSON, BEING THE DULY ELECTED, QUALIFIED AND ACTING FINANCE DIRECTOR OF THE
CITY OF RIVER FALLS, DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RECORDS IN MY OFFICE,
THERE ARE NO UNPAID TAXES OR SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS AS OF _________________  AFFECTING THE
LAND INCLUDED IN THE PLAT OF STERLING PONDS COTTAGES.
_____________________________                  _________________________
SARAH KARLSSON                                            DATE
FINANCE DIRECTOR
STATE OF WISCONSIN)
    COUNTY OF ST. CROIX)SS
I, DENISE ANDERSON, BEING THE DULY ELECTED, QUALIFIED AND ACTING TREASURER OF ST. CROIX
COUNTY, DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE RECORDS IN MY OFFICE SHOW NO UNREDEEMED TAX SALES
AND NO UNPAID TAXES OR SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS AS OF __________________ AFFECTING THE LAND
INCLUDED IN THE PLAT OF STERLING PONDS COTTAGES.
__________________________________                ________________________
DENISE ANDERSON,                                                  DATE
COUNTY TREASURER
RESOLVED, THAT THE PLAT OF STERLING PONDS COTTAGES, IN THE CITY OF RIVER FALLS,
E.W. HOMES, INC, OWNER, IS HEREBY APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
_______________________________              _________________
DAN TOLAND                                                     DATE
MAYOR
I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE FOREGOING IS A COPY OF A RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE
CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RIVER FALLS.
_______________________________              _________________
AMY WHITE
                                              DATE
CITY CLERK
E.W. HOMES, INC., A CORPORATION DULY ORGANIZED AND EXISTING UNDER AND BY VIRTUE OF THE
LAWS OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN, AS OWNER, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY THAT SAID CORPORATION
CAUSED THE LAND DESCRIBED ON THIS PLAT TO BE SURVEYED, DIVIDED, MAPPED AND DEDICATED
AS REPRESENTED ON THIS PLAT. E.W. HOMES, INC., DOES FURTHER CERTIFY THAT THIS PLAT IS
REQUIRED BY S.236.10 OR S.236.12 TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE FOLLOWING FOR APPROVAL OR
OBJECTION: CITY OF RIVER FALLS, DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION AND ST. CROIX COUNTY
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE SAID E.W HOMES, INC. , HAS CAUSED THESE PRESENTS TO BE SIGNED BY
MARK B. SYLLA, PRESIDENT, THIS ______ DAY OF __________________, 20____.
IN THE PRESENCE OF:
E.W. HOMES, INC.
__________ _____________________
MARK B. SYLLA,   PRESIDENT
STATE OF ______________)
COUNTY OF_____________)SS.
PERSONALLY CAME BEFORE ME THIS _____ DAY OF ____________, 20___, MARK B. SYLLA, PRESIDENT
OF THE ABOVE NAMED CORPORATION, TO ME KNOWN TO BE THE PERSONS WHO EXECUTED THE
FOREGOING INSTRUMENT, AND TO ME KNOWN TO BE SUCH PRESIDENT OF SAID CORPORATION, AND
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT THEY EXECUTED THE FOREGOING INSTRUMENT AS SUCH PRESIDENT AS THE
DEED OF SAID CORPORATION, BY ITS AUTHORITY.
__________ ______________________
__________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES
ALLIANCE BANK, A CORPORATION DULY ORGANIZED AND EXISTING UNDER AND BY VIRTUE OF THE
LAWS OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN, MORTGAGEE OF THE LAND DESCRIBED IN STERLING PONDS
COTTAGES, DOES HEREBY CONSENT TO THE SURVEYING, DIVIDING, MAPPING, AND DEDICATION OF
THE LAND DESCRIBED ON THIS PLAT, AND DOES HEREBY CONSENT TO THE ABOVE CERTIFICATE OF
E.W. HOMES, INC., OWNER.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE SAID ALLIANCE BANK HAS CAUSED THESE PRESENTS TO BE SIGNED BY
TODD NESS, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER,  AND ITS CORPORATE SEAL TO BE HEREUNTO AFFIXED.
THIS ___________  DAY OF ____________________, 20______.
IN THE PRESENCE OF:
______________________________________________
TODD NESS, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
STATE OF WISCONSIN )
COUNTY OF BUFFALO )SS
PERSONALLY CAME BEFORE ME THIS ______ DAY OF _______________, 20 ___, TODD NESS, CHIEF
EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE ABOVE NAMED CORPORATION, TO ME KNOWN TO BE THE PERSON WHO
EXECUTED THE FOREGOING INSTRUMENT, AND TO ME KNOWN TO BE SUCH CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER OF SAID CORPORATION AND ACKNOWLEDGED THAT HE EXECUTED THE FOREGOING
INSTRUMENT AS SUCH OFFICER AS THE DEED OF SAID CORPORATION, BY ITS AUTHORITY.
__________________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC
_________________________________
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES
THIS INSTRUMENT DRAFTED BY: DAVID C. KRUSCHKE JOB NO. 5010-162   DATE: 04/17/2020
N
S
&
CITY OF RIVER FALLS, ST. CROIX COUNTY, WISCONSIN
DCK
DJZ
04/13/2020
Sterling Ponds Cottages Final Plat
5010-162
SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
I, Douglas J. Zahler, Professional Wisconsin Land Surveyor, hereby certify: that in full compliance with the
provisions of Chapter 236 of the Wisconsin Statutes and the subdivision regulations of the City of River Falls,
and under the direction of E.W. HOMES, INC, owner of said land, I have surveyed, divided and mapped
STERLING PONDS COTTAGES; that such plat correctly represents all exterior boundaries and the subdivision of
the land surveyed; and that this plat is located in part of the Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of
Section 24, Township 28 North, Range 19 West, being part of Lot 1 of that Certified Survey Map recorded in
Volume 29 of said maps, on Page 6638, as Document No. 1080553 in the Office of the St. Croix County Register
of Deeds, more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the North Quarter corner of said Section 24; thence, along the North-South Quarter line of said
Section 24, S 00° 06' 21" W a distance of 2465.76 feet; thence, N 89° 53' 39" W a distance of 44.27 feet to the
southeast corner of Lot 1 of said Certified Survey Map and the Point of Beginning; thence, along the southerly
line of said Lot 1, N 89° 53' 39" W for a distance of 141.90 feet; thence northwesterly along said lot line a
distance of 263.80 feet, being the arc of a 330.00 foot radius curve, concave northeasterly, with a central angle
of 45⁰48'08”, and a chord that bears N66⁰59'35”W for a distance of 256.83 feet; thence, along said lot line, N
44° 05' 31" W a distance of 19.68 feet to the southerly Right of Way of Newcastle Drive;  thence, along said
Right of Way, N 45° 54' 29" E a distance of 99.00 feet; thence, along said Right of Way, N 44° 05' 31" W a
distance of 100.00 feet; thence, along said Right of Way, S 45° 54' 29" W a distance of 47.50 feet; thence, N 44°
05' 31" W a distance of 123.18 feet; thence northerly a distance of 138.51 feet along the arc of a 178.50 foot
radius curve, concave easterly, with a central angle of 44⁰27'37” and a chord that bears N 21° 51' 42.5" W for a
distance of 135.06 feet; thence, N 00° 22' 06" E a distance of 125.78 feet to the southerly Right of Way of
Chapman Drive; thence, along said southerly Right of Way, S 89° 37' 54" E a distance of 484.75 feet; thence
southeasterly along said southerly right-of-way, a distance of 117.24 feet; said right-of-way being the arc of a
75.00 foot curve, concave southwesterly, with a central angle of 89⁰34'08”, and a chord that bears S 44° 50' 50"
E a distance of 105.67 feet; thence, along the westerly Right of Way of Huppert Street, S 00° 03' 46" E a
distance of 484.00 feet to the Point of Beginning; Containing 5.75 acres of land.
Dated this 13th day of April, 2020.
_________________________________________
Douglas J. Zahler
Auth Consulting & Associates
2920 Enloe Street, Suite 101
Hudson, WI 54016
715-386-2007
44
7
MEMORANDUM
TO:
Mayor Toland and City Council
FROM:
Brandy Howe, Senior Planner
DATE:
June 9, 2020
TITLE:
Sterling Ponds
Developers Agreement Addendum Regarding Sidewalk
Installation
RECOMMENDED ACTION
Approve the addendum to the Sterling Ponds Developers Agreement regarding sidewalk 
installation in the Sterling Ponds Cottages subdivision; a supplementary agreement between the 
City of River Falls and E.W. Homes. 
BACKGROUND
The City of River Falls entered 
into an agreement with Arcon 
Development in May 2003 for 
Sterling 
Ponds, 
a 
residential 
subdivision on the north side of 
River Falls. Per the development 
agreement,
as 
well 
as 
the 
standards 
in 
the 
Traditional 
Neighborhood 
Development 
(TND) 
zoning 
district, 
the 
developer is obligated to install 5-
foot sidewalks on both sides of 
streets within Sterling Ponds. 
E.W. Homes filed a preliminary 
plat to develop nine twin homes 
(18-units) on a 7.2 acre portion of 
Sterling Ponds located at the 
southeast corner of the Chapman 
Initial submittal of draft engineering plans – 01/03/20
45
Memorandum to Mayor and City Council
June 9, 2020
Page 2
Drive
and 
Huppert 
Street 
intersection. Through the filing of 
the preliminary plat, engineering 
plans were also submitted that
showed sidewalk on only a single 
side of Newcastle Drive
(see 
image on previous page).
To 
comply with the development 
agreement 
and 
the 
zoning 
ordinance, sidewalk is required 
on both sides of Newcastle, 
including around the cul-de-sac, 
as well as on the east side of 
Triton Avenue—a private street. 
(Note: sidewalk already exists on 
the west side of Triton). 
On February 4, 2020, the Plan
Commission 
reviewed 
the 
preliminary 
plat. 
There 
was 
considerable discussion at that time regarding the functionality and benefits of sidewalks; how 
they provide connectivity between housing units, create public space, and provide a sense of 
community for the entire neighborhood. The Plan Commission ultimately approved the 
preliminary plat with the condition that the engineering plans be revised to depict sidewalk on 
both sides of Newcastle Drive, around the cul-de-sac, with a sidewalk connection between Lots 
8 and 9 to connect the neighborhood to the multiuse trail on Chapman Drive. It was also 
determined that the Plan Commission would be amenable to allowing the subdivision to move 
forward without sidewalk on the east side of Triton Avenue, but to allow that exception would 
require a City Council-approved addendum to the 2003 Developer’s Agreement. Revised 
engineering plans were submitted to the City on February 17, 2020 that depict sidewalk as 
agreed by the Plan Commission. This decision allows for connectivity to the trail on Chapman 
Drive and does not increase maintenance for Sterling Heights, the owner of Triton Avenue. This 
item is now brought forward to City Council for consideration. 
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
The cost to install sidewalks within the Sterling Ponds Cottages subdivision will be borne by the 
developer. 
CONCLUSION
Approve the addendum to the Sterling Ponds Development Agreement regarding sidewalk 
installation in the Sterling Ponds Cottages subdivision.
Revised draft engineering plans – 02/17/20
46
ADDENDUM TO 
STERLING PONDS DEVELOPER’S AGREEMENT AMENDMENT
(AGREEMENT BETWEEN CITY OF RIVER FALLS AND 
E.W. HOMES REGARDING SIDEWALK INSTALLATION
IN STERLING PONDS COTTAGES SUBDIVISION)
WHEREAS, Sterling Ponds is a subdivision on the north side of River Falls that is the subject of a 
Development Agreement (“Agreement”) between Arcon Development (“Developer”) and the City of 
River Falls (“City”) dated May 27, 2003; and 
WHEREAS, the Agreement is binding to future successors, assigns, and property owners and is 
deemed covenants running with the land; and 
WHEREAS, E.W. Homes is the successor for a 7.2-acre portion of the overall Sterling Ponds 
development located at the southwest corner of Chapman Drive (CTH U) and Huppert Street; and 
WHEREAS, E.W. Homes filed a preliminary plat with the City of River Falls to develop the 7.2-
acre site as Sterling Ponds Cottages, a new subdivision to include nine twin homes (18 units) and, at the 
time of plat submittal, E.W. Homes requested the subdivision be approved with sidewalk on a single side 
of the street (i.e. sidewalk was proposed only on the south side of Newcastle Drive); and 
WHEREAS, Section 17.112.050(D)(3) of the Municipal Code and Section 2.2(f) of the Agreement 
obligates the developer to install 5-foot sidewalks on both sides of the streets within the development; 
and
WHEREAS, the Plan Commission reviewed the plat and considered the request on February 4, 
2020, at which time there was considerable discussion by the Commission regarding the function of 
sidewalks to provide connectivity between housing units, to create public space, and provide a sense of 
community for the entire neighborhood; and
WHEREAS, the preliminary plat was approved by the Plan Commission at the February 4, 2020
meeting with the condition that sidewalk be provided on both sides of Newcastle Drive with a 
connection between Lots 8 and 9 to the trail on Chapman Drive (depicted on Exhibit A) in exchange for 
sidewalk on just one side of Triton Avenue (a private street that abuts the Sterling Heights subdivision); 
and  
WHEREAS, in order to allow the above described sidewalk exception, a City Council-approved 
amendment to the 2003 Developer’s Agreement is recommended. 
NOW, THEREFORE, the City of River Falls and E.W. Homes agree that sidewalk infrastructure 
shall be installed along both sides of Newcastle Drive with a connection between Lots 8 and 9 to the trail 
on Chapman Drive, as is depicted on Exhibit A.
47
This Addendum shall not be interpreted as modifying, reducing, or otherwise affecting any of the 
obligations of the developer under the original Development Agreement except as is expressly set forth 
hereinabove. 
Dated this ____9th____ day of June 2020.
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
By: __________________________
      Dan Toland, Mayor
BY: __________________________
       Amy White, City Clerk
E.W. Homes 
By: _________________________
      Mark Sylla 
By: _________________________
48
EXHIBIT A
Snippet of sheet C3.0 - Sterling Ponds Cottages civil plans – 4/7/20
49
RESOLUTION NO. ___
APPROVING AN ADDENDUM TO THE 
STERLING PONDS DEVELOPER’S AGREEMENT 
(AGREEMENT BETWEEN CITY OF RIVER FALLS AND 
E.W. HOMES REGARDING SIDEWALK INSTALLATION)
WHEREAS, the City of River Falls entered into a development agreement with Arcon 
Development in May 2003 for Sterling Ponds, a residential subdivision on the north side of River 
Falls, and that Agreement obligates the developer to install sidewalks on both sides of all streets; 
and
WHEREAS, E.W. Homes filed a preliminary plat to develop a 7.2-acre site as Sterling Ponds 
Cottages, a new subdivision within Sterling Ponds, as well as preliminary engineering plans
that depicted sidewalk in just one location—on a single side of Newcastle Drive; and 
WHEREAS, the preliminary plat for Sterling Ponds Cottages was reviewed by the Plan 
Commission on February 4, 2020, and there was considerable discussion regarding the function 
of sidewalks to provide connectivity between housing units, create public space, and provide a 
sense of community for the entire neighborhood; and
WHEREAS, the preliminary plat was approved by the Plan Commission on February 4, 2020 
with the condition that engineering plans and final plat for the subdivision include: 
1.
Sidewalk on both sides of Newcastle Drive with a sidewalk connection between Lots 8 
and 9 to connect the neighborhood to the trail on Chapman Drive 
2.
Sidewalk would not be required on the east side of Triton Avenue, a private street that 
abuts Sterling Ponds Cottages; and 
WHEREAS, in order to allow the above described sidewalk exception to move forward, a City 
Council-approved addendum to the 2003 Developer’s Agreement is necessary. 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Common Council hereby approves the
enclosed addendum to the Sterling Ponds Developer’s Agreement as a supplementary agreement 
between the City of River Falls and E.W. Homes regarding sidewalk installation in Sterling Ponds 
Cottages.
50
-2-
Dated this 9th day of June 2020.
        CITY OF RIVER FALLS
         
         Dan Toland, Mayor
ATTEST:
Amy White, City Clerk
51
8
MEMORANDUM
TO:
Mayor Toland and City Council Members
FROM:
Sarah Karlsson, Finance Director 
DATE:
June 9, 2020
TITLE:
Resolution Awarding the Sale of General Obligation Bonds 
RECOMMENDED ACTION
Review and approve the resolutions to award the sale of $6,250,000 in general obligation bonds 
to fund the Police department building purchase and remodel at 2815 Prairie Drive, the 
financing of the 2019 purchase of a fire engine from Pierce Manufacturing, and the refunding of 
the 2017A State Trust Fund loan subject to acceptable bids being submitted. The official 
statement related to the offering provides extensive information on the City’s financial 
condition for potential investors is included in the Council package. 
BACKGROUND
Bids are being solicited to finance the Police department building purchase and remodel at 2815 
Prairie Drive, the financing of the 2019 purchase of a fire engine from Pierce Manufacturing, 
and the refunding of the 2017A State Trust Fund loan. 
An official statement has been prepared to solicit bids from underwriters for this offering, and a 
rating has been requested from Moody’s.  
DISCUSSION
The bids will be received on Tuesday, June 9, and will be available at the Council meeting for 
review and discussion. A final resolution reflecting the recommended bid will be distributed at 
the City Council meeting. 
The maximum amount of general obligation debt allowed for municipalities is five percent of 
the City’s equalized value.  With this issue, the City is at 48 percent of the maximum allowed of 
$54,217,895. 
52
Memorandum to Mayor and City Council
June 9, 2020
Page 2
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
The proposed issue will provide $6,250,000 in project funding for Police department building 
purchase and remodel at 2815 Prairie Drive, the financing of the 2019 purchase of a fire engine 
from Pierce Manufacturing, and the refunding of the 2017A State Trust Fund loan with the 
remaining amount used for debt issuance costs. Please refer to tables below for more detail. 
53
Memorandum to Mayor and City Council
June 9, 2020
Page 3
CONCLUSION
Sean Lentz from Ehlers will attend the Council meeting to present the bid results and make a 
recommendation to the Council.
54
This Preliminary Official Statement and the information contained herein are subject to completion and amendment.  These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time the Official Statement is delivered in final form. 
Under no circumstances shall this Preliminary Official Statement constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy these securities nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would
be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.  This Preliminary Official Statement is in a form deemed final as of its date for purposes of SEC Rule 15c2-12(b) (1), but is subject to revision, amendment
and completion in a Final Official Statement.
PRELIMINARY OFFICIAL STATEMENT DATED JUNE 2, 2020
In the opinion of Quarles & Brady LLP, Bond Counsel, assuming continued compliance with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
under existing law interest on the Bonds is excludable from gross income and is not an item of tax preference for federal income tax purposes.  See "TAX EXEMPTION"
herein for a more detailed discussion of some of the federal income tax consequences of owning the Bonds.  The interest on the Bonds is not exempt from present
Wisconsin income or franchise taxes.
The City will designate the Bonds as "qualified tax-exempt obligations" for purposes of Section 265(b)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, relating
to the ability of financial institutions to deduct from income for federal income tax purposes, interest expense that is allocable to carrying and acquiring tax-exempt
obligations.
New Issue
Rating Application Made: Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
CITY OF RIVER FALLS, WISCONSIN
(Pierce and St. Croix Counties)
$6,250,000* GENERAL OBLIGATION CORPORATE PURPOSE BONDS, SERIES 2020A
BID OPENING:  June 9, 2020, 10:00 A.M., C.T.
CONSIDERATION:  June 9, 2020, 6:30 P.M., C.T.
PURPOSE/AUTHORITY/SECURITY: The $6,250,000* General Obligation Corporate Purpose Bonds, Series 2020A
(the "Bonds") of the City of River Falls, Wisconsin (the "City"), are authorized pursuant to Section 67.04, Wisconsin
Statutes, for the public purposes of paying the cost of a fire engine, constructing a police facility and current refunding 
certain outstanding general obligations of the City as more fully described herein.  The Bonds are general obligations of
the City, and all taxable property in the City is subject to the levy of a tax to pay the principal of and interest on the Bonds
as they become due which tax may, under current law, be levied without limitation as to rate or amount.  Delivery is subject
to receipt of an approving legal opinion of Quarles & Brady LLP, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
DATE OF BONDS: 
June 30, 2020
MATURITY: 
March 1 as follows:
Year
Amount*
Year
Amount*
Year
Amount*
2021
$80,000
2028
$370,000
2035
$330,000
2022
345,000
2029
380,000
2036
275,000
2023
350,000
2030
385,000
2037
285,000
2024
355,000
2031
395,000
2038
290,000
2025
360,000
2032
310,000
2039
190,000
2026
360,000
2033
310,000
2040
195,000
2027
365,000
2034
320,000
*MATURITY
ADJUSTMENTS:
The City reserves the right to increase or decrease the principal amount of the Bonds on
the day of sale, in increments of $5,000 each.  Increases or decreases may be made in any
maturity.  If any principal amounts are adjusted, the purchase price proposed will be
adjusted to maintain the same gross spread per $1,000.
TERM BONDS: 
See "Term Bond Option" herein.
INTEREST: 
March 1, 2021 and semiannually thereafter.
OPTIONAL REDEMPTION: Bonds maturing on March 1, 2029 and thereafter are subject to call for prior optional
redemption on March 1, 2028 or any date thereafter, at a price of par plus accrued interest.
MINIMUM BID: 
$6,156,250.
GOOD FAITH DEPOSIT: 
A good faith deposit in the amount of $125,000 shall be made by the winning bidder by
wire transfer of funds.
PAYING AGENT: 
U.S. Bank National Association.
BOND COUNSEL & 
DISCLOSURE COUNSEL: Quarles & Brady LLP.
MUNICIPAL ADVISOR: 
Ehlers and Associates, Inc.
BOOK-ENTRY-ONLY:
See "Book-Entry-Only System" herein (unless otherwise specified by the purchaser).
55
REPRESENTATIONS
No dealer, broker, salesperson or other person has been authorized by the City to give any information or to make any
representation other than those contained in this Preliminary Official Statement and, if given or made, such other information or
representations must not be relied upon as having been authorized by the City.  This Preliminary Official Statement does not
constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any of the Bonds in any jurisdiction to any person to whom it is
unlawful to make such an offer or solicitation in such jurisdiction.
This Preliminary Official Statement is not to be construed as a contract with the Syndicate Manager or Syndicate Members. 
Statements contained herein which involve estimates or matters of opinion are intended solely as such and are not to be construed
as representations of fact.  Ehlers and Associates, Inc. prepared this Preliminary Official Statement and any addenda thereto
relying on information of the City and other sources for which there is reasonable basis for believing the information is accurate
and complete. Quarles & Brady LLP will serve as Disclosure Counsel to the City with respect to the Bonds. Compensation of
Ehlers and Associates, Inc., payable entirely by the City, is contingent upon the delivery of the Bonds.
COMPLIANCE WITH S.E.C. RULE 15c2-12
Certain municipal obligations (issued in an aggregate amount over $1,000,000) are subject to Rule 15c2-12 promulgated by the
Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Rule").
Preliminary Official Statement:  This Preliminary Official Statement was prepared for the City for dissemination to potential
investors.  Its primary purpose is to disclose information regarding the Bonds to prospective underwriters in the interest of
receiving competitive proposals in accordance with the sale notice contained herein.  Unless an addendum is posted prior to the
sale, this Preliminary Official Statement shall be deemed nearly final for purposes of the Rule subject to completion, revision and
amendment in a Final Official Statement as defined below.
Review Period:  This Preliminary Official Statement has been distributed to prospective bidders for review.  Comments or
requests for the correction of omissions or inaccuracies must be submitted to Ehlers and Associates, Inc. at least two business days
prior to the sale.  Requests for additional information or corrections in the Preliminary Official Statement received on or before
this date will not be considered a qualification of a proposal received from an underwriter.  If there are any changes, corrections
or additions to the Preliminary Official Statement, interested bidders will be informed by an addendum prior to the sale.
Final Official Statement:  Copies of the Final Official Statement will be delivered to the underwriter (Syndicate Manager)
within seven business days following the proposal acceptance.
Continuing Disclosure:  Subject to certain exemptions, issues in an aggregate amount over $1,000,000 may be required to
comply with provisions of the Rule which require that underwriters obtain from the issuers of municipal securities (or other
obligated party) an agreement for the benefit of the owners of the securities to provide continuing disclosure with respect to those
securities.  This Preliminary Official Statement describes the conditions under which the City is required to comply with the Rule.
CLOSING CERTIFICATES
Upon delivery of the Bonds, the underwriter (Syndicate Manager) will be furnished with the following items: (1) a certificate of
the appropriate officials to the effect that at the time of the sale of the Bonds and all times subsequent thereto up to and including
the time of the delivery of the Bonds, this Preliminary Official Statement did not and does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which
they were made, not misleading; (2) a receipt signed by the appropriate officer evidencing payment for the Bonds; (3) a certificate
evidencing the due execution of the Bonds, including statements that (a) no litigation of any nature is pending, or to the knowledge
of signers, threatened, restraining or enjoining the issuance and delivery of the Bonds, (b) neither the corporate existence or
boundaries of the City nor the title of the signers to their respective offices is being contested, and (c) no authority or proceedings
for the issuance of the Bonds have been repealed, revoked or rescinded; and (4) a certificate setting forth facts and expectations
of the City which indicates that the City does not expect to use the proceeds of the Bonds in a manner that would cause them to
be arbitrage bonds within the meaning of Section 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or within the meaning
of applicable Treasury Regulations. 
ii
56
TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
THE BONDS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
GENERAL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
OPTIONAL REDEMPTION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
AUTHORITY; PURPOSE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
ESTIMATED SOURCES AND USES.. . . . . . . . . . 3
SECURITY.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
RATING. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
CONTINUING DISCLOSURE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
LEGAL MATTERS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
TAX EXEMPTION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
BOND PREMIUM. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
QUALIFIED TAX-EXEMPT OBLIGATIONS. . . . 6
MUNICIPAL ADVISOR. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
MUNICIPAL ADVISOR AFFILIATED 
COMPANIES.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
RISK FACTORS.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
VALUATIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
WISCONSIN PROPERTY VALUATIONS; 
PROPERTY TAXES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
CURRENT PROPERTY VALUATIONS. . . . . . . 11
2019 EQUALIZED VALUE BY 
CLASSIFICATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
TREND OF VALUATIONS.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
LARGER TAXPAYERS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
DEBT.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
DIRECT DEBT.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
SCHEDULE OF GENERAL OBLIGATION 
DEBT.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
SCHEDULE OF ELECTRIC REVENUE 
DEBT.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
SCHEDULE OF SEWER REVENUE DEBT. . . . 18
SCHEDULE OF WATER REVENUE DEBT. . . . 19
DEBT LIMIT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
OVERLAPPING DEBT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
DEBT RATIOS.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
DEBT PAYMENT HISTORY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
FUTURE FINANCING. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
TAX LEVIES AND COLLECTIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
TAX LEVIES AND COLLECTIONS. . . . . . . . . . 22
PROPERTY TAX RATES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
LEVY LIMITS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
THE ISSUER. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
CITY GOVERNMENT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
EMPLOYEES; PENSIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
OTHER POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS. . . . 28
LITIGATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
MUNICIPAL BANKRUPTCY.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
FUNDS ON HAND. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
ENTERPRISE FUNDS.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
SUMMARY GENERAL FUND 
INFORMATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
GENERAL INFORMATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
LOCATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
LARGER EMPLOYERS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
BUILDING PERMITS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
U.S. CENSUS DATA. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
EMPLOYMENT/UNEMPLOYMENT DATA. . . 35
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A-1
FORM OF LEGAL OPINION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . B-1
BOOK-ENTRY-ONLY SYSTEM.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C-1
FORM OF CONTINUING DISCLOSURE 
CERTIFICATE.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . D-1
NOTICE OF SALE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E-1
BID FORM
iii
57
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
COMMON COUNCIL
Term Expires
Daniel Toland
Mayor
April 2022
Todd Bjerstedt
Alderperson
April 2022
Sean Downing
Alderperson
April 2021
Christopher Gagne
Alderperson
April 2021
Scott Morrissette
Alderperson
April 2022
Diane Odeen
Alderperson
April 2021
Ben Plunkett
Alderperson
April 2022
Hal Watson
Alderperson
April 2021
ADMINISTRATION
Scot Simpson, City Administrator
Sarah Karlsson, Finance Director / City Treasurer
Amy White, City Clerk
Jason Stroud, Assistant City Administrator
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
Christopher Gierhart, Weld Riley S.C., City Attorney, Eau Claire, Wisconsin
Quarles & Brady LLP, Bond Counsel and Disclosure Counsel, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
Ehlers and Associates, Inc., Municipal Advisors, Roseville, Minnesota
(Other offices located in Waukesha, Wisconsin and Denver, Colorado)
iv
58
INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT
This Preliminary Official Statement contains certain information regarding the City of River Falls, Wisconsin (the
"City") and the issuance of its $6,250,000* General Obligation Corporate Purpose Bonds, Series 2020A (the
"Bonds").  Any descriptions or summaries of the Bonds, statutes, or documents included herein are not intended to
be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to such statutes and documents and the form of the Bonds
to be included in the resolution awarding the sale of the Bonds ("Award Resolution") to be adopted by the Common
Council on June 9, 2020.
Inquiries may be directed to Ehlers and Associates, Inc. ("Ehlers" or the "Municipal Advisor"), Roseville, Minnesota,
(651) 697-8500, the City's municipal advisor.  A copy of this Preliminary Official Statement may be downloaded
from Ehlers’ web site at www.ehlers-inc.com by connecting to the Bond Sales link and following the directions at
the top of the site.
THE BONDS
GENERAL
The Bonds will be issued in fully registered form as to both principal and interest in denominations of $5,000 each
or any integral multiple thereof, and will be dated, as originally issued, as of June 30, 2020.  The Bonds will mature
on March 1 in the years and amounts set forth on the cover of this Preliminary Official Statement.  Interest will be
payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing March 1, 2021, to the registered owners of the Bonds
appearing of record in the bond register as of the close of business on the 15th day (whether or not a business day)
of the immediately preceding month.  Interest will be computed upon the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day
months and will be rounded pursuant to rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board ("MSRB").   All Bonds
of the same maturity must bear interest from the date of issue until paid at a single, uniform rate.  Each rate must be
expressed in an integral multiple of 5/100 or 1/8 of 1%.   
Unless otherwise specified by the purchaser, the Bonds will be registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee for
The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York ("DTC").  (See "Book-Entry-Only System" herein.)  As long
as the Bonds are held under the book-entry system, beneficial ownership interests in the Bonds may be acquired in
book-entry form only, and all payments of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds shall be made
through the facilities of DTC and its participants.  If the book-entry system is terminated, principal of, premium, if
any, and interest on the Bonds shall be payable as provided in the Award Resolution.
The City has selected U.S. Bank National Association, St. Paul, Minnesota, to act as paying agent (the "Paying
Agent").  The City will pay the charges for Paying Agent services.  The City reserves the right to remove the Paying
Agent and to appoint a successor.
OPTIONAL REDEMPTION
At the option of the City, the Bonds maturing on or after March 1, 2029 shall be subject to optional redemption prior
to maturity on March 1, 2028 or any date thereafter, at a price of par plus accrued interest.
Redemption may be in whole or in part of the Bonds subject to prepayment.  If redemption is in part, the selection
of the amounts and maturities of the Bonds to be redeemed shall be at the discretion of the City.  If only part of the
Bonds having a common maturity date are called for redemption, then the City or Paying Agent, if any, will notify
DTC of the particular amount of such maturity to be redeemed.  DTC will determine by lot the amount of each
participant's interest in such maturity to be redeemed and each participant will then select by lot the beneficial
ownership interest in such maturity to be redeemed.
*Preliminary, subject to change.
1
59
Notice of such call shall be given by sending a notice by registered or certified mail, facsimile or electronic
transmission, overnight delivery service or in any other manner required by DTC, not less than 30 days nor more than
60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption to the registered owner of each Bond to be redeemed at the address
shown on the registration books.
AUTHORITY; PURPOSE
The Bonds are authorized pursuant to Section 67.04, Wisconsin Statutes, for the public purposes of paying the cost
of a fire engine, constructing a police facility and current refunding the City’s State Trust Fund Loan, dated January
9, 2017 (the "2017 Loan") and the General Obligation Promissory Note, dated January 25, 2019 (the "2019 Note")
as follows:
Issue Being Refunded
Date of
Refunded
Issue
Call
Date
Call
Price
Maturities
Being
Refunded
Interest
Rates
Principal
 to be
Refunded
2017 Loan
01/09/17
07/13/20
Par
2021
3.50%
$69,422
2022
3.50%
71,851
2023
3.50%
74,366
2024
3.50%
76,902
2025
3.50%
79,661
2026
3.50%
82,449
2027
3.50%
85,334
2028
3.50%
88,285
2029
3.50%
91,411
2030
3.50%
94,611
2031
3.50%
97,922
Total 2017 Loan Being Refunded
$912,215
Issue Being Refunded
Date of
Refunded
Issue
Call
Date
Call
Price
Maturities
Being
Refunded
Interest
Rates
Principal
 to be
Refunded
2019 Note
01/25/19
06/30/20
Par
2020
2.84%
$1,500,000
Total 2019 Note Being Refunded
$1,500,000
2
60
ESTIMATED SOURCES AND USES*
Sources
Par Amount of Bonds
$6,250,000
Total Sources
$6,250,000
Uses
Estimated Underwriter's Discount
$93,750
Costs of Issuance
71,500
Deposit to Project Construction Fund
3,650,000
Deposit to Current Refunding Fund
2,430,521
Rounding Amount
4,229
Total Uses
$6,250,000
*Preliminary, subject to change.
SECURITY
For the prompt payment of the Bonds with interest thereon and for the levy of taxes sufficient for this purpose, the
full faith, credit and resources of the City will be irrevocably pledged.  The City will levy a direct, annual,
irrepealable tax on all taxable property in the City sufficient to pay the interest on the Bonds when it becomes due
and also to pay and discharge the principal on the Bonds at maturity, in compliance with Article XI, Section 3 of the
Wisconsin Constitution.  Such tax may, under current law, be levied without limitation as to rate or amount.
RATING
General obligation debt of the City is currently rated "Aa2" by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody’s"). 
The City has requested a rating on the Bonds from Moody's, and bidders will be notified as to the assigned rating
prior to the sale.  Such rating reflects only the views of such organization and explanations of the significance of such
rating may be obtained from Moody's.  Generally, a rating agency bases its rating on the information and materials
furnished to it and on investigations, studies and assumptions of its own.  There is no assurance that such rating will
continue for any given period of time or that it will not be revised downward or withdrawn entirely by such rating
agency, if in the judgment of such rating agency circumstances so warrant.  Any such downward revision or
withdrawal of such rating may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Bonds.  
Such rating is not to be construed as a recommendation of the rating agency to buy, sell or hold the Bonds, and the
rating assigned by the rating agency should be evaluated independently.  Except as may be required by the Disclosure
Undertaking described under the heading "CONTINUING DISCLOSURE" neither the City nor the underwriter
undertake responsibility to bring to the attention of the owner of the Bonds any proposed changes in or withdrawal
of such rating or to oppose any such revision or withdrawal.
3
61
CONTINUING DISCLOSURE
In order to assist brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers, in connection with their participation in the
offering of the Bonds, to comply with Rule 15c2-12 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission,
pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Rule"), the City shall agree to provide certain
information to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board ("MSRB") through its Electronic Municipal Market
Access ("EMMA") system, or any system that may be prescribed in the future. The Rule was last amended, effective
February 27, 2019, to include an expanded list of material events. The Disclosure Undertaking includes the two new
material events effective February 27, 2019 under the Rule.
On the date of issue and delivery, the City shall execute and deliver a Continuing Disclosure Certificate, under which
the City will covenant for the benefit of holders including beneficial holders, to provide electronically, or in a manner
otherwise prescribed, certain financial information annually and to provide notices of the occurrence of certain events
enumerated in the Rule (the "Disclosure Undertaking"). The details and terms of the Disclosure Undertaking for the
City are set forth in Appendix D. Such Disclosure Undertaking will be in substantially the form attached hereto.
A failure by the City to comply with the Disclosure Undertaking will not constitute an event of default on the Bonds.
However, such a failure may adversely affect the transferability and liquidity of the Bonds and their market price.
For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2014, December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 the City failed to provide
certain of its operating data required for its water system revenue bonds. Except to the extent the preceding is deemed
to be material, in the previous five years the City believes it has not failed to comply in all material respects with its
prior undertakings under the Rule. The City has reviewed its continuing disclosure responsibilities, including the new
material events, to help ensure compliance in the future. Ehlers is engaged as dissemination agent for the City.
LEGAL MATTERS 
An opinion as to the validity of the Bonds and the exemption from federal taxation of the interest thereon will be
furnished by Quarles & Brady LLP,  Bond Counsel to the City, and will be available at the time of delivery of the
Bonds.  The legal opinion will be issued on the basis of existing law and will state that the Bonds are valid and
binding general obligations of the City; provided that the rights of the owners of the Bonds and the enforceability
of the Bonds may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, and other similar laws affecting
creditors' rights and by equitable principles (which may be applied in either a legal or equitable proceeding).  (See
“FORM OF LEGAL OPINION” found in Appendix B.)
Quarles & Brady LLP has also been retained by the City to serve as Disclosure Counsel to the City with respect to
the Bonds.  Although, as Disclosure Counsel to the City, Quarles & Brady LLP has assisted the City with certain
disclosure matters, Quarles & Brady LLP has not undertaken to independently verify the accuracy, completeness or
sufficiency of this Official Statement or other offering material relating to the Bonds and assumes no responsibility
whatsoever nor shall have any liability to any other party for the statements or information contained or incorporated
by reference in this Official Statement.  Further, Quarles & Brady LLP makes no representation as to the suitability
of the Bonds for any investor.
TAX EXEMPTION
Quarles & Brady LLP, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Bond Counsel, will deliver a legal opinion with respect to the federal
income tax exemption applicable to the interest on the Bonds under existing law substantially in the following form:
"The interest on the Bonds is excludable for federal income tax purposes from the gross income of the
owners of the Bonds.  The interest on the Bonds is not an item of tax preference for purposes of the federal
alternative minimum tax imposed by Section 55 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
4
62
"Code") on individuals.  The Code contains requirements that must be satisfied subsequent to the issuance
of the Bonds in order for interest on the Bonds to be or continue to be excludable from gross income for
federal income tax purposes.  Failure to comply with certain of those requirements could cause the interest
on the Bonds to be included in gross income retroactively to the date of issuance of the Bonds.  The City has
agreed to comply with all of those requirements.  The opinion set forth in the first sentence of this paragraph
is subject to the condition that the City comply with those requirements.  We express no opinion regarding
other federal tax consequences arising with respect to the Bonds."
The interest on the Bonds is not exempt from present Wisconsin income or franchise taxes.
Prospective purchasers of the Bonds should be aware that ownership of the Bonds may result in collateral federal
income tax consequences to certain taxpayers.  Bond Counsel will not express any opinion as to such collateral tax
consequences.  Prospective purchasers of the Bonds should consult their tax advisors as to collateral federal income
tax consequences.
From time to time legislation is proposed, and there are or may be legislative proposals pending in the Congress of
the United States that, if enacted, could alter or amend the federal tax matters referred to above or adversely affect
the market value of the Bonds.  It cannot be predicted whether, or in what form, any proposal that could alter one or
more of the federal tax matters referred to above or adversely affect the market value of the Bonds may be
enacted. Prospective purchasers of the Bonds should consult their own tax advisors regarding any pending or
proposed federal tax legislation. Bond Counsel expresses no opinion regarding any pending or proposed federal tax
legislation.
ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT
To the extent that the initial public offering price of certain of the Bonds is less than the principal amount payable
at maturity, such Bonds ("Discounted Bonds") will be considered to be issued with original issue discount.  The
original issue discount is the excess of the stated redemption price at maturity of a Discounted Bond over the initial
offering price to the public, excluding underwriters or other intermediaries, at which price a substantial amount of
such Discounted Bonds were sold (issue price).  With respect to a taxpayer who purchases a Discounted Bond in the
initial public offering at the issue price and who holds such Discounted Bond to maturity, the full amount of original
issue discount will constitute interest that is not includible in the gross income of the owner of such Discounted Bond
for federal income tax purposes and such owner will not, subject to the caveats and provisions herein described,
realize taxable capital gain upon payment of such Discounted Bond upon maturity.
Original issue discount is treated as compounding semiannually, at a rate determined by reference to the yield to
maturity of each individual Discounted Bond, on days that are determined by reference to the maturity date of such
Discounted Bond.  The amount treated as original issue discount on a Discounted Bond for a particular semiannual
accrual period is generally equal to (a) the product of (i) the yield to maturity for such Discounted Bond (determined
by compounding at the close of each accrual period) and (ii) the amount that would have been the tax basis of such
Discounted Bond at the beginning of the particular accrual period if held by the original purchaser; and less (b) the
amount of any interest payable for such Discounted Bond during the accrual period.  The tax basis is determined by
adding to the initial public offering price on such Discounted Bond the sum of the amounts that have been treated
as original issue discount for such purposes during all prior periods.  If a Discounted Bond is sold or exchanged
between semiannual compounding dates, original issue discount that would have been accrued for that semiannual
compounding period for federal income tax purposes is to be apportioned in equal amounts among the days in such
compounding period.
  
For federal income tax purposes, the amount of original issue discount that is treated as having accrued with respect
to such Discounted Bond is added to the cost basis of the owner in determining gain or loss upon disposition of a
Discounted Bond (including its sale, exchange, redemption, or payment at maturity).  Amounts received upon
5
63
disposition of a Discounted Bond that are attributable to accrued original issue discount will be treated as tax-exempt
interest, rather than as taxable gain. 
The accrual or receipt of original issue discount on the Discounted Bonds may result in certain collateral federal
income tax consequences for the owners of such Discounted Bonds.  The extent of these collateral tax consequences
will depend upon the owner's particular tax status and other items of income or deduction.  
The Code contains additional provisions relating to the accrual of original issue discount.  Owners who purchase
Discounted Bonds at a price other than the issue price or who purchase such Discounted Bonds in the secondary
market should consult their own tax advisors with respect to the tax consequences of owning the Discounted Bonds. 
Under the applicable provisions governing the determination of state and local taxes, accrued interest on the
Discounted Bonds may be deemed to be received in the year of accrual even though there will not be a corresponding
cash payment until a later year.  Owners of Discounted Bonds should consult their own tax advisors with respect to
the state and local tax consequences of owning the Discounted Bonds.
BOND PREMIUM
To the extent that the initial offering price of certain of the Bonds is more than the principal amount payable at
maturity, such Bonds ("Premium Bonds") will be considered to have bond premium.
Any Premium Bond purchased in the initial offering at the issue price will have "amortizable premium" within the
meaning of Section 171 of the Code.  The amortizable premium of each Premium Bond is calculated on a daily basis
from the issue date of such Premium Bond until its stated maturity date (or call date, if any) on the basis of a constant
interest rate compounded at each accrual period (with straight line interpolation between the compounding dates). 
An owner of a Premium Bond that has amortizable premium is not allowed any deduction for the amortizable
premium; rather the amortizable premium attributable to a taxable year is applied against (and operates to reduce)
the amount of tax-exempt interest payments on the Premium Bonds.  During each taxable year, such an owner must
reduce his or her tax basis in such Premium Bond by the amount of the amortizable premium that is allocable to the
portion of such taxable year during which the holder held such Premium Bond.  The adjusted tax basis in a Premium
Bond will be used to determine taxable gain or loss upon a disposition (including the sale, exchange, redemption,
or payment at maturity) of such Premium Bond.
Owners of Premium Bonds who did not purchase such Premium Bonds in the initial offering at the issue price should
consult their own tax advisors with respect to the tax consequences of owning such Premium Bonds.  Owners of
Premium Bonds should consult their own tax advisors with respect to the state and local tax consequences of owning
the Premium Bonds.  
QUALIFIED TAX-EXEMPT OBLIGATIONS
The City will designate the Bonds as "qualified tax-exempt obligations" for purposes of Section 265(b)(3) of the
Code relating to the ability of financial institutions to deduct from income for federal income tax purposes, interest
expense that is allocable to carrying and acquiring tax-exempt obligations.
MUNICIPAL ADVISOR
Ehlers has served as municipal advisor to the City in connection with the issuance of the Bonds.  The Municipal
Advisor cannot participate in the underwriting of the Bonds.  The financial information included in this Official
Statement has been compiled by the Municipal Advisor.  Such information does not purport to be a review, audit or
certified forecast of future events and may not conform with accounting principles applicable to compilations of
6
64
financial information.  Ehlers is not a firm of certified public accountants.  Ehlers is registered with the Securities
and Exchange Commission and the MSRB as a municipal advisor. 
MUNICIPAL ADVISOR AFFILIATED COMPANIES
Bond Trust Services Corporation ("BTSC") and Ehlers Investment Partners, LLC ("EIP") are affiliate companies of
Ehlers.  BTSC is chartered by the State of Minnesota and authorized in Minnesota, Wisconsin,  Colorado, and Illinois
to transact the business of a limited purpose trust company.  BTSC provides paying agent services to debt issuers. 
EIP is a Registered Investment Advisor with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  EIP assists issuers with the
investment of bond proceeds or investing other issuer funds.  This includes escrow bidding agent services.  Issuers,
such as the City, have retained or may retain BTSC and/or EIP to provide these services.  If hired, BTSC and/or EIP
would be retained by the City under an agreement separate from Ehlers. 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
The basic financial statements of the City for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, and the DRAFT basic
financial statements of the City for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 have been audited by Baker Tilly
Virchow Krause, LLP, Eau Claire, Wisconsin, independent auditors (the "Auditor"). The report of the Auditor,
together with the basic financial statements, component units financial statements, and notes to the financial
statements are attached hereto as "APPENDIX A – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS".  The City expects delivery of the
draft financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, in substantially the form attached hereto, but
such financial statements are subject to further revision.  The Auditor has not been engaged to perform and has not
performed, since the date of its report included herein, any procedures on the financial statements addressed in that
report.  The Auditor also has not performed any procedures relating to this Official Statement.  
RISK FACTORS
Following is a description of possible risks to holders of the Bonds without weighting as to probability.  This
description of risks is not intended to be all-inclusive, and there may be other risks not now perceived or listed here. 
Potential investors should read this Official Statement, including the appendices, in its entirety.
Taxes:  The Bonds  are general obligations of the City, the ultimate payment of which rests in the City's ability to
levy and collect sufficient taxes to pay debt service. In the event of delayed billing, collection or distribution of
property taxes, sufficient funds may not be available to the City in time to pay debt service when due.
State Actions:  Many elements of local government finance, including the issuance of debt and the levy of property
taxes, are controlled by state government.  Future actions of the state may affect the overall financial condition of
the City, the taxable value of property within the City, and the ability of the City to levy and collect property taxes. 
Future Changes in Law: Various State and federal laws, regulations and constitutional provisions apply to the  City
and to the Bonds.  The City can give no assurance that there will not be a change in or interpretation of any such
applicable laws, regulations and provisions which would have a material effect on the City or the taxing authority
of the City.
Ratings; Interest Rates:  In the future, the City's credit rating may be reduced or withdrawn, or interest rates for this
type of obligation may rise generally, either possibility resulting in a reduction in the value of the Bonds for resale
prior to maturity.
7
65
Tax Exemption:  If the federal government taxes all or a portion of the interest on municipal bonds or notes or if
the State government increases its tax on interest on bonds and notes, directly or indirectly, or if there is a change
in federal or state tax policy, then the value of these Bonds may fall for purposes of resale.  Noncompliance by the
City with the covenants in the Award Resolution relating to certain continuing requirements of the Code may result
in inclusion of interest to be paid on the Bonds in gross income of the recipient for United States income tax
purposes, retroactive to the date of issuance.
Continuing Disclosure:  A failure by the City to comply with the Disclosure Undertaking for continuing disclosure
(see "CONTINUING DISCLOSURE") will not constitute an event of default on the Bonds.  Any such failure must
be reported in accordance with the Rule and must be considered by any broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer
before recommending the purchase or sale of the Bonds in the secondary market.  Such a failure may adversely affect
the transferability and liquidity of the Bonds and their market price.
Book-Entry-Only System: The timely credit of payments for principal and interest on the Bonds to the accounts
of the Beneficial Owners of the Bonds may be delayed due to the customary practices, standing instructions or for
other unknown reasons by DTC participants or indirect participants.  Since the notice of redemption or other notices
to holders of these obligations will be delivered by the City to DTC only, there may be a delay or failure by DTC,
DTC participants or indirect participants to notify the Beneficial Owners of the Bonds.
Depository Risk:  Wisconsin Statutes direct the local treasurer to immediately deposit upon receipt thereof, the funds
of the municipality in a public depository designated by the governing body.  A public depository means a federal
or state credit union, federal or state savings and loan association, state bank, savings and trust company, mutual
savings bank or national bank in Wisconsin or the local government pooled investment fund operated by the State
Investment Board.  It is not uncommon for a municipality to have deposits exceeding limits of federal and state
insurance programs.  Failure of a depository could result in loss of public funds or a delay in obtaining them.  Such
a loss or delay could interrupt a timely payment of municipal debt.
Economy:  A combination of economic, climatic, political or civil disruptions or terrorist actions outside of the
control of the City, including loss of major taxpayers or major employers, could affect the local economy and result
in reduced tax collections and/or increased demands upon local government.  Real or perceived threats to the financial
stability of the City may have an adverse effect on the value of the Bonds in the secondary market.
Secondary Market for the Bonds: No assurance can be given that a secondary market will develop for the purchase
and sale of the Bonds or, if a secondary market exists, that such Bonds can be sold for any particular price.  The
underwriters are not obligated to engage in secondary market trading or to repurchase any of the Bonds at the request
of the owners thereof.  Prices of the Bonds as traded in the secondary market are subject to adjustment upward and
downward in response to changes in the credit markets and other prevailing circumstances.  No guarantee exists as
to the future market value of the Bonds.  Such market value could be substantially different from the original
purchase price. 
Bankruptcy: The rights and remedies of the holders may be limited by and are subject to the provisions of federal
bankruptcy laws, to other laws, or equitable principles that may affect the enforcement of creditors’ rights, to the
exercise of judicial discretion in appropriate cases and to limitations on legal remedies against local governments. 
The opinion of Bond Counsel to be delivered with respect to the Bonds will be similarly qualified. See "MUNICIPAL
BANKRUPTCY" herein.
Cybersecurity: The City is dependent on electronic information technology systems to deliver services.  These
systems may contain sensitive information or support critical operational functions which may have value for
unauthorized purposes.  As a result, the electronic systems and networks may be targets of cyberattack.  There can
be no assurance that the City will not experience an information technology breach or attack with financial
consequences that could have a material adverse impact.   
8
66
Impact of the Spread of COVID-19: In late 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) emerged in Wuhan,
Hubei Province, China. COVID-19 has spread throughout the world, including to the United States, resulting in the
World Health Organization proclaiming COVID-19 to be a pandemic and President Trump declaring a national
emergency. In response to the spread of COVID-19, the United States government, state governments, local
governments and private industries have taken measures to limit social interactions in an effort to limit the spread
of COVID-19. The effects of the spread of COVID-19 and the government and private responses to the spread
continue to rapidly evolve. COVID-19 has caused significant disruptions to the global, national and State economy. 
The extent to which the coronavirus impacts the City and its financial condition will depend on future developments,
which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted by the City, including the duration of the outbreak and measures
taken to address the outbreak.
                                                                                                                
On March 12, 2020, Wisconsin Governor Tony Evers declared a public health emergency in the State in response
to the growing threat of COVID-19. That declaration included direction to the state Department of Health Services
to use any and all required resources to respond to and contain the outbreak. Governor Evers followed that up with
a "safer at home" order on March 24, 2020, closing nonessential businesses, banning gatherings of any size and
imposing strict travel restrictions through April 24, 2020. On April 16, 2020, the "safer at home" order was extended
from April 24, 2020 through May 26, 2020. Schools will remain closed for the duration of the 2019-2020 school year
and continue distance learning, but certain non-essential businesses will be allowed to open operations on a limited
basis during this time, including curbside pickup, delivery, mailings and minimum basic operations.
Also on April 16, 2020, President Trump outlined "Guidelines for Opening Up America Again," a three-phased
approach to restarting the economy based on public health experts’ advice. The guidelines start with a set of criteria
that should be met before starting phases one to three. The criteria include a downward trajectory of people with flu-
like and COVID-19-like symptoms for 14 days; a downward trajectory of documented cases for 14 days or a
downward trajectory of positive tests as a percentage of total tests over a 14-day period; and hospitals with the ability
to treat all patients without crisis care and a robust testing program for at-risk healthcare workers. 
On April 20, 2020, Governor Evers announced Wisconsin’s three-phased approach to reopening the State’s economy,
based on President Trump’s guidelines, including similar criteria to be met before phase one can begin. On April 21,
2020, Republican legislators in the State filed a lawsuit challenging the legality of the Order. On May 13, 2020, the
Wisconsin Supreme Court ruled that the State's "safer at home" order is unlawful, invalid and unenforceable because
the emergency rulemaking procedures under Section 227.24 of the Wisconsin Statutes and procedures established
by the Wisconsin Legislature for rulemaking if criminal penalties were to follow were not followed  in connection
with the order. The Supreme Court's decision does not invalidate any local health officials' orders or prevent future
local health officials' orders related to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the "CARES Act") provides for federal payments from
the Coronavirus Relief Fund to the State for the discrete purpose of covering expenses directly incurred as a result
of COVID-19 between March 1 and December 30, 2020. On May 27, 2020, Governor Tony Evers announced a
program titled, "Routes to Recovery: Local Government Aid Grants," which will distribute $190 million of the State's
Coronavirus Relief Fund monies to all counties, cities, villages and towns across Wisconsin for unbudgeted eligible
expenditures incurred due to COVID-19 between March 1 and October 31, 2020. The State allocated funds based
on population with a guaranteed minimum allocation of $5,000. The City's allocation is $257,438. These funds will
be disbursed up to the amount of the allocation after eligible expenditures are reported through the State's cost tracker
application.
9
67
VALUATIONS
WISCONSIN PROPERTY VALUATIONS; PROPERTY TAXES
Equalized Value
Section 70.57, Wisconsin Statutes, requires the Department of Revenue to annually determine the equalized value
(also referred to as full equalized value or aggregate full value) of all taxable property in each county and taxation
district.  The equalized value is an independent estimate of value used to equate individual local assessment policies
so that property taxes are uniform throughout the various subdivisions in the State.  Equalized value is calculated
based on the history of comparable sales and information about value changes or taxing status provided by the local
assessor.  A comparison of the State-determined equalized value and the local assessed value, expressed as a
percentage, is known as the assessment ratio or level of assessment.  The Department of Revenue notifies each county
and taxing jurisdiction of its equalized value on August 15; school districts are notified on October 1.  The equalized
value of each county is the sum of the valuations of all cities, villages, and towns within its boundaries.  Taxing
jurisdictions lying in more than one municipality, such as counties, school districts, or special taxing districts, use
the equalized value of the underlying units in calculating and levying their respective levies.  Equalized values are 
also used to apportion state aids and calculate municipal general obligation debt limits.
Assessed Value
The "assessed value" of taxable property in a municipality is determined by the local assessor, except for
manufacturing properties which are valued by the State.  Each city, village or town retains its own local assessor, who
must be certified by the State Department of Revenue.  Assessed value is used by these municipalities to determine
tax levy mill rates and to apportion levies among individual property owners.  Each taxing district must assess
property at full value at least once in every five-year period.  The State requires that the assessed values must be
within 10% of State equalized values at least once every four years.  The local assessor values property as of January
1 each year and submits those values to each municipality by the second Monday in June.  The assessor also reports
any value changes taking place since the previous year, to the Department of Revenue, by the second Monday in June.
The economic impact of COVID-19 may impact assessed and equalized valuations of property in the State, including
in the City.  The City cannot predict the extent of any such changes, but a material decrease in the equalized
valuations of property in the City may materially adversely affect the financial condition of the City (see "RISK
FACTORS - Impact of the Spread of COVID-19" herein).
10
68
CURRENT PROPERTY VALUATIONS
Pierce 
County
St. Croix 
County
Total
2019 Equalized Value
$683,752,200
$400,605,700
$1,084,357,900
2019 Equalized Value Reduced by Tax Increment Valuation
$667,789,400
$348,723,100
$1,016,512,500
2019 Assessed Value
$600,383,500
$348,481,500
$948,865,000
 
2019 EQUALIZED VALUE BY CLASSIFICATION
2019
 Equalized Value1
Percent of Total
Equalized Value
Residential
$
799,686,100
73.747%
Commercial
239,200,800
22.059%
Manufacturing
29,751,600
2.744%
Agricultural
13,800
0.001%
Undeveloped
13,400
0.001%
Ag Forest
89,100
0.008%
Personal Property
15,603,100
1.439%
Total
$ 1,084,357,900
100.000%
TREND OF VALUATIONS
Year
Assessed
Value
Equalized
Value1
Percent
Increase/Decrease
in Equalized Value
2015
$ 875,226,800
$ 879,304,600
3.17%
2016
885,178,900
911,180,400
3.63%
2017
901,063,500
965,444,900
5.96%
2018
926,399,800
1,050,124,600
8.77%
2019
948,865,000
1,084,357,900
3.26%
Source: Wisconsin Department of Revenue, Bureau of Equalization and Local Government Services Bureau.
1
Includes tax increment valuation.
11
69
LARGER TAXPAYERS
Taxpayer
Type of Business/Property
2019
Equalized
 Value1
Percent of
 City's Total
Equalized Value
Winfield Solutions LLC
Agricultural Retailer
$ 13,881,126
1.28%
IGO Legacy Hotel Group
Marshfield LLC
Hotel
7,893,433
0.73%
Wisota LLC
Apartments
8,777,240
0.81%
TW Equities
Vending Machines
7,041,151
0.65%
River Falls RCAC LLC
Senior Care
5,604,212
0.52%
Erickson’s Diversified Corp.
Grocery Store
5,277,473
0.49%
1777 Paulson Road LLC
Shopko site - closed retail
3,878,898
0.36%
Health One Corp.
Hospital
3,654,041
0.34%
Goldridge Group TH RF, LLC
Senior Care
3,187,097
0.29%
Aldi Inc.
Grocery Store
3,110,752
0.29%
Total
$ 62,305,423
5.75%
City's Total 2019 Equalized Value2
$1,084,357,900
Source:
The City. 
1
Calculated by dividing the 2019 Assessed Values by the 2019 Aggregate Ratio of assessment for the City. 
2
Includes tax increment valuation.
12
70
DEBT
DIRECT DEBT1 
General Obligation Debt (see schedules following)
Total General Obligation Debt (includes the Bonds)*
$
23,065,721
Revenue Debt (see schedules following)
Total revenue debt secured by electric revenues
$
2,085,000
Total revenue debt secured by sewer revenues
4,971,895
Total revenue debt secured by water revenues
1,385,000
*Preliminary, subject to change.
1
Outstanding debt is as of the dated date of the Bonds and excludes the obligations to be refunded by the Bonds.
13
71
City of River Falls, Wisconsin
Schedule of Bonded Indebtedness
General Obligation Debt Secured by Taxes
(As of 06/30/2020)
38225
343219
38640
343228
327338
327785
336576
343298
336577
343299
Dated
Amount
Maturity
Calendar 
Year Ending
Principal
Interest
Principal
Interest
Principal
Interest
Principal
Interest
Principal
Interest
2020
0
20,871
0
9,800
390,000
78,169
0
0
0
0
2021
425,000
36,643
315,000
16,450
400,000
140,738
70,486
47,518
30,290
5,253
2022
135,000
29,720
325,000
10,050
410,000
124,738
73,129
44,875
31,275
4,268
2023
135,000
25,974
340,000
3,400
225,000
108,338
75,872
42,133
32,291
3,252
2024
140,000
21,950
230,000
99,338
78,609
39,395
33,335
2,208
2025
145,000
17,603
240,000
92,438
81,665
36,340
34,424
1,119
2026
150,000
12,955
245,000
85,238
84,727
33,277
2027
155,000
7,998
255,000
77,888
87,904
30,100
2028
160,000
2,720
260,000
70,238
91,127
26,877
2029
270,000
62,438
94,618
23,386
2030
275,000
54,338
98,166
19,838
2031
290,000
45,400
101,848
16,157
2032
300,000
35,250
105,633
12,371
2033
310,000
24,000
109,628
8,376
2034
330,000
6,188
113,739
4,265
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
1,445,000
176,433
980,000
39,700
4,430,000
1,104,731
1,267,153
384,908
161,615
16,099
‐‐Continued on next page
Taxable Refunding Bonds
Series 2012A
03/22/2012
$4,560,000
03/01
Refunding Bonds
Series 2012B
09/20/2012
$3,765,000
05/01
Corporate Purpose Bonds
Series 2014A
08/12/2014
$5,425,000
Final Maturity 06/01
12/01
State Trust Fund Loan
07/01/2015
$1,600,000
03/15
State Trust Fund Loan
10/07/2015
$269,800
03/15
14
72
City of River Falls, Wisconsin
Schedule of Bonded Indebtedness continued
General Obligation Debt Secured by Taxes
(As of 06/30/2020)
336578
343300
328510
329999
331148
333935
331596
334638
335347
341772
Dated
Amount
Maturity
Calendar 
Year Ending
Principal
Interest
Principal
Interest
Principal
Interest
Principal
Interest
Principal
Interest
2020
28,750
4,726
325,000
46,425
0
0
0
46,974
51,600
6,114
2021
57,500
8,140
335,000
83,100
29,303
733
195,000
91,023
103,200
9,579
2022
57,500
6,426
340,000
73,050
205,000
85,023
103,200
6,095
2023
57,500
4,712
355,000
62,850
210,000
78,798
103,200
2,611
2024
57,500
3,008
365,000
52,200
215,000
72,423
2025
57,500
1,284
375,000
41,250
220,000
65,898
2026
385,000
33,750
230,000
59,148
2027
390,000
26,050
235,000
52,173
2028
400,000
18,250
245,000
44,973
2029
410,000
5,125
250,000
37,548
2030
260,000
29,898
2031
265,000
21,890
2032
275,000
13,451
2033
285,000
4,560
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
316,250
28,297
3,680,000
442,050
29,303
733
3,090,000
703,775
361,200
24,400
‐‐Continued on next page
Promissory Bank Note
10/21/2015
$575,000
04/15 & 10/15
Refunding Bonds
Series 2016B
04/13/2016
$4,060,000
Final Maturity 03/01
09/01
State Trust Fund Loan
01/09/2017
$112,500
03/15
Park Bonds
Series 2018A
07/02/2018
$3,460,000
04/01
Promissory Note
12/14/2018
$516,000
06/14 & 12/14
15
73
City of River Falls, Wisconsin
Schedule of Bonded Indebtedness continued
General Obligation Debt Secured by Taxes
(As of 06/30/2020)
335173
341393
335174
341394
338707
346794
Dated
Amount
Maturity
Calendar 
Year Ending
Principal
Interest
Principal
Interest
Principal*
Estimated 
Interest*
Total Principal*
Total Interest*
Total P & I*
Principal 
Outstanding*
% Paid*
Calendar 
Year 
Ending
2020
31,000
7,647
51,800
4,980
0
0
878,150
225,706
1,103,856
22,187,571
3.81%
2020
2021
62,000
13,968
103,600
8,228
80,000
133,150
2,206,379
594,521
2,800,901
19,981,192
13.37%
2021
2022
62,000
12,371
103,600
6,033
345,000
110,859
2,190,704
513,507
2,704,211
17,790,487
22.87%
2022
2023
62,000
10,774
103,600
3,837
350,000
106,029
2,049,463
452,706
2,502,169
15,741,024
31.76%
2023
2024
62,000
9,204
103,600
1,648
355,000
101,058
1,640,044
402,431
2,042,475
14,100,980
38.87%
2024
2025
62,000
7,581
360,000
95,928
1,575,589
359,439
1,935,027
12,525,392
45.70%
2025
2026
62,000
5,984
360,000
90,618
1,516,727
320,969
1,837,696
11,008,664
52.27%
2026
2027
62,000
4,388
365,000
85,089
1,549,904
283,684
1,833,588
9,458,760
58.99%
2027
2028
62,000
2,800
370,000
79,300
1,588,127
245,157
1,833,284
7,870,632
65.88%
2028
2029
62,000
1,194
380,000
73,205
1,466,618
202,895
1,669,514
6,404,014
72.24%
2029
2030
385,000
66,798
1,018,166
170,871
1,189,037
5,385,848
76.65%
2030
2031
395,000
59,871
1,051,848
143,318
1,195,166
4,334,000
81.21%
2031
2032
310,000
53,195
990,633
114,268
1,104,901
3,343,367
85.51%
2032
2033
310,000
46,995
1,014,628
83,931
1,098,559
2,328,739
89.90%
2033
2034
320,000
40,378
763,739
50,830
814,569
1,565,000
93.22%
2034
2035
330,000
33,225
330,000
33,225
363,225
1,235,000
94.65%
2035
2036
275,000
26,350
275,000
26,350
301,350
960,000
95.84%
2036
2037
285,000
19,839
285,000
19,839
304,839
675,000
97.07%
2037
2038
290,000
13,010
290,000
13,010
303,010
385,000
98.33%
2038
2039
190,000
7,203
190,000
7,203
197,203
195,000
99.15%
2039
2040
195,000
2,438
195,000
2,438
197,438
0
100.00%
2040
589,000
75,910
466,200
24,726
6,250,000
1,244,535
23,065,721
4,266,296
27,332,017
* Preliminary, subject to change.
Promissory Note
11/06/2019
$620,000
05/06 & 11/06
Promissory Note
11/06/2019
$518,000
05/06 & 11/06
Corporate Purpose Bonds
Series 2020A
06/30/2020
$6,250,000*
03/01
16
74
City of River Falls, Wisconsin
Schedule of Bonded Indebtedness
Revenue Debt Secured by Electric Revenues
(As of 06/30/2020)
331641
334886
Dated
Amount
Maturity
Calendar 
Year Ending
Principal
Interest
Total Principal
Total Interest
Total P & I
Principal 
Outstanding
% Paid
Calendar 
Year 
Ending
2020
0
36,125
0
36,125
36,125
2,085,000
.00%
2020
2021
230,000
67,650
230,000
67,650
297,650
1,855,000
11.03%
2021
2022
240,000
58,250
240,000
58,250
298,250
1,615,000
22.54%
2022
2023
245,000
48,550
245,000
48,550
293,550
1,370,000
34.29%
2023
2024
255,000
38,550
255,000
38,550
293,550
1,115,000
46.52%
2024
2025
265,000
29,475
265,000
29,475
294,475
850,000
59.23%
2025
2026
275,000
21,375
275,000
21,375
296,375
575,000
72.42%
2026
2027
285,000
12,975
285,000
12,975
297,975
290,000
86.09%
2027
2028
290,000
4,350
290,000
4,350
294,350
0
100.00%
2028
2,085,000
317,300
2,085,000
317,300
2,402,300
Electric System Revenue Bonds
Series 2018B
07/02/2018
$2,500,000
04/01
17
75
City of River Falls, Wisconsin
Schedule of Bonded Indebtedness
Revenue Debt Secured by Sewer Revenues
(As of 06/30/2020)
31172
31172
328509
329998
Dated
Amount
Maturity
Calendar 
Year Ending
Principal
Interest
Principal
Interest
Total Principal
Total Interest
Total P & I
Principal 
Outstanding
% Paid
Calendar 
Year 
Ending
2020
0
13,962
0
51,675
0
65,637
65,637
4,971,895
.00%
2020
2021
192,512
25,281
205,000
101,300
397,512
126,581
524,093
4,574,383
8.00%
2021
2022
197,798
19,922
210,000
97,150
407,798
117,072
524,870
4,166,585
16.20%
2022
2023
203,230
14,416
215,000
92,900
418,230
107,316
525,546
3,748,355
24.61%
2023
2024
208,811
8,758
220,000
88,550
428,811
97,308
526,119
3,319,544
33.23%
2024
2025
214,544
2,946
225,000
84,100
439,544
87,046
526,590
2,880,000
42.07%
2025
2026
225,000
79,600
225,000
79,600
304,600
2,655,000
46.60%
2026
2027
230,000
75,050
230,000
75,050
305,050
2,425,000
51.23%
2027
2028
240,000
69,150
240,000
69,150
309,150
2,185,000
56.05%
2028
2029
245,000
61,875
245,000
61,875
306,875
1,940,000
60.98%
2029
2030
255,000
54,375
255,000
54,375
309,375
1,685,000
66.11%
2030
2031
260,000
46,650
260,000
46,650
306,650
1,425,000
71.34%
2031
2032
270,000
38,700
270,000
38,700
308,700
1,155,000
76.77%
2032
2033
275,000
30,525
275,000
30,525
305,525
880,000
82.30%
2033
2034
285,000
22,125
285,000
22,125
307,125
595,000
88.03%
2034
2035
295,000
13,425
295,000
13,425
308,425
300,000
93.97%
2035
2036
300,000
4,500
300,000
4,500
304,500
0
100.00%
2036
1,016,895
85,284
3,955,000
1,011,650
4,971,895
1,096,934
6,068,829
Sewerage System Revenue Bonds 
(CWFL) 
Series 2005
11/23/2005
$3,757,042
05/01
Sewerage System Revenue Bonds
Series 2016A
04/13/2016
$4,510,000
05/01
18
76
City of River Falls, Wisconsin
Schedule of Bonded Indebtedness
Revenue Debt Secured by Water Revenues
(As of 06/30/2020)
37291
343217
Dated
Amount
Maturity
Calendar 
Year Ending
Principal
Interest
Total Principal
Total Interest
Total P & I
Principal 
Outstanding
% Paid
Calendar 
Year 
Ending
2020
0
27,170
0
27,170
27,170
1,385,000
.00%
2020
2021
105,000
52,765
105,000
52,765
157,765
1,280,000
7.58%
2021
2022
105,000
49,405
105,000
49,405
154,405
1,175,000
15.16%
2022
2023
110,000
45,750
110,000
45,750
155,750
1,065,000
23.10%
2023
2024
115,000
41,695
115,000
41,695
156,695
950,000
31.41%
2024
2025
120,000
37,230
120,000
37,230
157,230
830,000
40.07%
2025
2026
125,000
32,450
125,000
32,450
157,450
705,000
49.10%
2026
2027
130,000
27,350
130,000
27,350
157,350
575,000
58.48%
2027
2028
135,000
21,915
135,000
21,915
156,915
440,000
68.23%
2028
2029
140,000
16,140
140,000
16,140
156,140
300,000
78.34%
2029
2030
145,000
10,010
145,000
10,010
155,010
155,000
88.81%
2030
2031
155,000
3,410
155,000
3,410
158,410
0
100.00%
2031
1,385,000
365,290
1,385,000
365,290
1,750,290
Water System Revenue Bonds
Series 2011A
07/06/2011
$2,125,000
05/01
19
77
DEBT LIMIT 
The constitutional and statutory general obligation debt limit for Wisconsin municipalities, including towns, cities,
villages, and counties (Article XI, Section 3 of the Wisconsin Constitution and Section 67.03, Wisconsin Statutes)
is 5% of the current equalized value.
Equalized Value
$ 1,084,357,900
Multiply by 5%
0.05  
Statutory Debt Limit
$
54,217,895
Less:  General Obligation Debt (includes the Bonds)*
(23,065,721)
Unused Debt Limit*
$
31,152,174
*Preliminary, subject to change.
OVERLAPPING DEBT1
Taxing District
2019
Equalized
Value2
% In 
City 
Total
G.O. Debt3
City's
Proportionate
        Share      
Pierce County 
$ 3,624,907,300
18.86%
$24,080,000
$ 4,541,488
St. Croix County
10,620,318,200
3.77%
59,287,968
2,235,156
River Falls School District
2,311,085,475
46.92%
64,175,000
30,110,910
Chippewa Valley Technical College District4
27,381,625,778
3.96%
37,280,000
1,476,288
City's Share of Total Overlapping Debt
$38,363,842
1
Overlapping debt is as of the dated date of the Bonds.  Only those taxing jurisdictions with general obligation
debt outstanding are included in this section.
2
Includes tax increment valuation.
3
Outstanding debt based on information obtained on EMMA and the Municipal Advisor's records.
4
The District is in the process of issuing $11,525,000 General Obligation Promissory Notes, Series 2020A, that
are expected to close June 18, 2020.
20
78
DEBT RATIOS
G.O. Debt
Debt/Equalized
Value
 $1,084,357,900
 Debt/ Per
Capita
15,8351
Total General Obligation Debt*
$ 23,065,721
2.13%
$ 1,456.63
City's Share of Total Overlapping Debt
38,363,842
3.54%
2,422.72
Total*
$ 61,429,563
5.67%
$ 3,879.35
*Preliminary, subject to change.
DEBT PAYMENT HISTORY
The City has no record of default in the payment of principal and interest on its debt.  Due to an administrative
miscommunication, the City did not timely make principal and interest payments due September 1, 2018 on certain
outstanding obligations.  The payments were wired to the paying agent the day after the due date.  The delay did not
reflect any financial difficulties of the City.
FUTURE FINANCING
The City expects to borrow a $500,000, 0% interest five-year loan repayable by electric system revenues within the
next month.  Other than the preceding, the City has no current plans for additional financing in the next 12 months.
1
Estimated 2019 population.
21
79
TAX LEVIES AND COLLECTIONS
TAX LEVIES AND COLLECTIONS
Pierce County
Tax Year
Levy for City
Purposes Only
% Collected
Levy/Equalized Value 
Reduced by Tax 
Increment Valuation
 in Dollars per $1,000
2015/16
$3,674,329
100%
$6.53
2016/17
3,837,001
100%
6.68
2017/18
4,103,042
100%
6.76
2018/19
4,333,997
100%
6.64
2019/20
4,506,777
In process
6.75
St. Croix County
Tax Year
Levy for City
Purposes Only
% Collected
Levy/Equalized Value 
Reduced by Tax 
Increment Valuation
 in Dollars per $1,000
2015/16
$1,748,555
100%
$6.53
2016/17
1,898,769
100%
6.68
2017/18
2,118,958
100%
6.76
2018/19
2,216,003
100%
6.64
2019/20
2,353,458
In process
6.75
Property tax statements are distributed to taxpayers by the town, village, and city treasurers in December of the levy
year.  Current state law requires counties to pay 100% of the real property taxes levied to cities, villages, towns,
school districts and other taxing entities on or about August 20 of the collection year.
Personal property taxes, special assessments, special charges and special taxes must be paid to the town, city or
village treasurer in full by January 31, unless the municipality, by ordinance, permits special assessments to be paid
in installments.  Real property taxes must be paid in full by January 31 or in two equal installments by January 31
and July 31.  Alternatively, municipalities may adopt a payment plan which permits real property taxes to be paid
in three or more equal installments, provided that the first installment is paid by January 31, one-half of the taxes are
paid by April 30 and the remainder is paid by July 31.  Amounts paid on or before January 31 are paid to the town,
city or village treasurer.  Amounts paid after January 31, are paid to the county treasurer unless the municipality has
authorized payment in three or more installments in which case payment is made to the town, city or village treasurer. 
On or before January 15 and February 20 the town, city or village treasurer settles with other taxing jurisdictions for
all collections through December and January, respectively.  In municipalities which have authorized the payment
of real property taxes in three or more installments, the town, city or village treasurer settles with the other taxing
jurisdictions on January 15, February 20 and on the fifteenth day of each month following the month in which an
installment payment is required.  On or before August 20, the county treasurer must settle in full with the underlying
taxing districts for all real property taxes and special taxes.  Any county board may authorize its county treasurer to
22
80
also settle in full with the underlying taxing districts for all special assessments and special charges.  The county may
then recover any tax delinquencies by enforcing the lien on the property and retain any penalties or interest on the
delinquencies for which it has settled.  Uncollected personal property taxes owed by an entity that has ceased
operations or filed a petition for bankruptcy, or are due on personal property that has been removed from the next
assessment roll are collected from each taxing entity in the year following the levy year.
The spread of COVID-19 and responses taken by the United States government, state governments, local governments
and private industries have caused significant disruptions to the national and State economy. See "RISK FACTORS
- Impact of the Spread of COVID-19" herein. On April 15, 2020, Governor Tony Evers signed into law 2020
Wisconsin Act 185, which provides that for property taxes payable in 2020, a taxation district may, after making a
general or case-by-case finding of hardship, choose to waive interest or penalties on property tax installment
payments paid after April 1, 2020 but on or before October 1, 2020. In order to take such action, the county board
of supervisors must first adopt a resolution authorizing such waiver and determining criteria for determining hardship
and the taxation district must subsequently adopt a similar resolution. In the case of a county adopting such a
resolution, the county shall proportionally settle with the taxation districts any taxes, interest and penalties collected
on or before July 31, 2020 on August 20, 2020, and settle the remaining unpaid taxes, interest, and penalties on
September 20, 2020. Pierce County, St. Croix County and the City have not yet adopted such resolutions. The City
cannot predict whether and how much payment of property taxes will be impacted by COVID-19 this year or in future
years. Any delays or reduction in the receipt of property taxes may materially adversely impact the City's finances
and payment of debt obligations, including the Bonds.
23
81
PROPERTY TAX RATES
Full value rates for property taxes expressed in dollars per $1,000 of equalized value (excluding tax increment
valuation) that have been collected in recent years have been as follows:
Pierce County
Year Levied/
Year Collected
Schools1
County
Local
Other2
Total
2015/16
11.12
5.78
6.53
0.17
23.60
2016/17
10.23
5.66
6.68
0.17
22.74
2017/18
9.96
6.00
6.76
0.00
22.72
2018/19
9.83
5.76
6.64
0.00
22.23
2019/20
9.86
5.52
6.75
0.00
22.13
St. Croix County
Year Levied/
Year Collected
Schools1
County
Local
Other2
Total
2015/16
11.12
3.72
6.53
0.19
21.57
2016/17
10.23
3.57
6.68
0.19
20.67
2017/18
9.96
3.57
6.76
0.00
20.29
2018/19
9.83
3.51
6.64
0.00
19.98
2019/20
9.86
3.40
6.75
0.00
20.01
Source:
Property Tax Rates were extracted from Statement of Taxes prepared by the Wisconsin Department of
Revenue, Division of State and Local Finance.
1
The Schools tax rate reflects the composite rate of all local school districts and technical college district.
2
Includes the state reforestation tax which is apportioned to each county on the basis of its full value.  Counties,
in turn, apportion the tax to the tax districts within their borders on the basis of full value.  It also includes taxes
levied for special purpose districts such as metropolitan sewerage districts, sanitary districts, and public inland
lake protection districts.  Tax increment values are not included.  State property taxes were eliminated in the
State's 2017 - 2019 budget act.
24
82
LEVY LIMITS
Section 66.0602 of the Wisconsin Statutes, imposes a limit on property tax levies by cities, villages, towns and
counties.  No city, village, town or county is permitted to increase its tax levy by a percentage that exceeds its
valuation factor (which is defined as a percentage equal to the greater of either the percentage change in the political
subdivision's January 1 equalized value due to new construction less improvements removed between the previous
year and the current or zero percent).  The base amount in any year to which the levy limit applies is the actual levy
for the immediately preceding year.  In 2018, and in each year thereafter, the base amount is the actual levy for the
immediately preceding year plus the amount of the payment from the State under Section 79.096 of the Wisconsin
Statutes (an amount equal to the property taxes formerly levied on certain items of personal property), and the levy
limit is the base amount multiplied by the valuation factor, minus the amount of the payment from the State under
Section 79.096 of the Wisconsin Statutes.  This levy limitation is an overall limit, applying to levies for operations
as well as for other purposes.
A political subdivision that did not levy its full allowable levy in the prior year can carry forward the difference
between the allowable levy and the actual levy, up to a maximum of 1.5% of the prior year's actual levy.  The use
of the carry forward levy adjustment needs to be approved by a majority vote of the political subdivision's governing
body (except in the case of towns) if the amount of carry forward levy adjustment is less than or equal to 0.5% and
by a super majority vote of the political subdivision's governing body (three-quarters vote if the governing body is
comprised of five or more members, two-thirds vote if the governing body is comprised of fewer than five members)
(except in the case of towns) if the amount of the carry forward levy adjustment is greater than 0.5% up to the
maximum increase of 1.5%.  For towns, the use of the carry forward levy adjustment needs to be approved by a
majority vote of the annual town meeting or special town meeting after the town board has adopted a resolution in
favor of the adjustment by a majority vote if the amount of carry forward levy adjustment is less than or equal to 0.5%
or by two-thirds vote or more if the amount of carry forward levy adjustment is greater than 0.5% up to the maximum
of 1.5%.
Beginning with levies imposed in 2015, if a political subdivision does not make an adjustment in its levy as described
in the above paragraph in the current year, the political subdivision may increase its levy by the aggregate amount
of the differences between the political subdivision’s valuation factor in the previous year and the actual percent
increase in a political subdivision’s levy attributable to the political subdivision’s valuation factor in the previous
year, for the five years before the current year, less any amount of such aggregate amount already claimed as an
adjustment in any of the previous five years.  The calculation of the aggregate amount available for such adjustment
may not include any year before 2014, and the maximum adjustment allowed may not exceed 5%.  The use of the
adjustment described in this paragraph requires approval by a two-thirds vote of the political subdivision’s governing
body, and the adjustment may only be used if the political subdivision’s level of outstanding general obligation debt
in the current year is less than or equal to the political subdivision’s level of outstanding general obligation debt in
the previous year.
Special provisions are made with respect to property taxes levied to pay general obligation debt service.  Those are
described below.  In addition, the statute provides for certain other exclusions from and adjustments to the tax levy
limit.  Among the items excluded from the limit are amounts levied for any revenue shortfall for debt service on a
revenue bond issued under Section 66.0621.  Among the adjustments permitted is an adjustment applicable when a
tax increment district terminates, which allows an amount equal to the prior year's allowable levy multiplied by 50%
of the political subdivision's percentage growth due to the district's termination.
With respect to general obligation debt service, the following provisions are made:  
(a)  If a political subdivision's levy for the payment of general obligation debt service, including debt service on debt
issued or reissued to fund or refund outstanding obligations of the political subdivision and interest on outstanding
obligations of the political subdivision, on debt originally issued before July 1, 2005, is less in the current year than
in the previous year, the political subdivision is required to reduce its levy limit in the current year by the amount of
the difference between the previous year's levy and the current year's levy.  
25
83
(b)  For obligations authorized before July 1, 2005, if the amount of debt service in the preceding year is less than
the amount of debt service needed in the current year, the levy limit is increased by the difference between the two
amounts.  This adjustment is based on scheduled debt service rather than the amount actually levied for debt service
(after taking into account offsetting revenues such as sales tax revenues, special assessments, utility revenues, tax
increment revenues or surplus funds).  Therefore, the levy limit could negatively impact political subdivisions that
experience a reduction in offsetting revenues.  
(c)  The levy limits do not apply to property taxes levied to pay debt service on general obligation debt authorized
on or after July 1, 2005.
The Bonds were authorized after July 1, 2005 and therefore the levy limits do not apply to taxes levied to pay debt
service on the Bonds.
THE ISSUER
CITY GOVERNMENT
The City was incorporated in 1885 and is governed by a Mayor and a seven-member Common Council.  The Mayor
does not vote except in the case of a tie.  All Council Members are elected to two-year terms.  The appointed City
Administrator, City Clerk, Finance Director/Treasurer and Assistant City Administrator are responsible for
administrative details and financial records.
EMPLOYEES; PENSIONS
The City employs a staff of 118 full-time and 57 part-time employees.  All eligible employees in the City are covered
under the Wisconsin Retirement System ("WRS") established under Chapter 40 of the Wisconsin Statutes ("Chapter
40").  The WRS is a cost-sharing multiple-employer defined benefit pension plan.  The Department of Employee
Trust Funds ("ETF") administers the WRS.  Required contributions to the WRS are determined by the ETF Board
pursuant to an annual actuarial valuation in accordance with Chapter 40 and the ETF's funding policies.  The ETF
Board has stated that its funding policy is to (i) ensure funds are adequate to pay benefits; (ii) maintain stable and
predictable contribution rates for employers and employees; and (iii) maintain inter-generational equity to ensure the
cost of the benefits is paid for by the generation that receives the benefits.
City employees are generally required to contribute half of the actuarially determined contributions, and the City
generally may not pay the employees' required contribution.  During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 ("Fiscal
Year 2017"),  the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 ("Fiscal Year 2018") and the fiscal year ended December 31,
2019 ("Fiscal Year 2019"), the City’s portion of contributions to WRS (not including any employee contributions)
totaled $595,057, $614,274 and $630,482, respectively.
The City implemented Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 68 ("GASB 68") for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2015.
GASB 68 requires calculation of a net pension liability for the pension plan.  The net pension liability is calculated
as the difference between the pension plan's total pension liability and the pension plan's fiduciary net position.  The
pension plan's total pension liability is the present value of the amounts needed to pay pension benefits earned by
each participant in the pension plan based on the service provided as of the date of the actuarial valuation.  In other
words, it is a measure of the present value of benefits owed as of a particular date based on what has been earned only
up to that date, without taking into account any benefits earned after that date.  The pension plan's fiduciary net
position is the market value of plan assets formally set aside in a trust and restricted to paying pension plan benefits. 
If the pension plan's total pension liability exceeds the pension plan's fiduciary net position, then a net pension
26
84
liability results.  If the pension plan's fiduciary net position exceeds the pension plan's total pension liability, then
a net pension asset results.
As of December 31, 2018, the total pension liability of the WRS was calculated as $100.29 billion and the fiduciary
net position of the WRS was calculated as $96.74 billion, resulting in a net pension liability of $3.56 billion. The
spread of COVID-19 has significantly impacted investment markets, which may impact the funded status of the WRS
and future contribution requirements as a result (see "RISK FACTORS - Impact of the Spread of COVID-19" herein)
Under GASB 68, each participating employer in a cost-sharing pension plan must report the employer's proportionate
share of the net pension liability or net pension asset of the pension plan.  Accordingly, for Fiscal Year 2019, the City
reported a liability of $2,028,136 for its proportionate share of the net pension liability of the WRS.  The net pension
liability was measured as of December 31, 2018 based on the City’s share of contributions to the pension plan relative
to the contributions of all participating employers.  The City’s proportion was 0.05700718% of the aggregate WRS
net pension liability as of December 31, 2018.
The calculation of the total pension liability and fiduciary net position are subject to a number of actuarial
assumptions, which may change in future actuarial valuations.  Such changes may have a significant impact on the
calculation of net pension liability of the WRS, which may also cause the ETF Board to change the contribution
requirements for employers and employees.  For more detailed information regarding the WRS and such actuarial
assumptions, see Note IV.A. in "APPENDIX A - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS" attached hereto.
Recognized and Certified Bargaining Units
All eligible City personnel are covered by the Municipal Employment Relations Act ("MERA") of the Wisconsin
Statutes.  Pursuant to that law, employees have rights to organize and collectively bargain with municipal employers. 
MERA was amended by 2011 Wisconsin Act 10 (the "Act") and by 2011 Wisconsin Act 32, which altered the
collective bargaining rights of public employees in Wisconsin.
As a result of the 2011 amendments to MERA, the City is prohibited from bargaining collectively with municipal
employees, other than public safety and transit employees, with respect to any factor or condition of employment
except total base wages.  Even then, the City is limited to increasing total base wages beyond any increase in the
consumer price index since 180 days before the expiration of the previous collective bargaining agreement (unless
City were to seek approval for a higher increase through a referendum).  Ultimately, the City can unilaterally
implement the wages for a collective bargaining unit.
Under the changes to MERA, impasse resolution procedures were removed from the law for municipal employees
of the type employed by the City, including binding interest arbitration.  Strikes by any municipal employee or labor
organization are expressly prohibited.  As a practical matter, it is anticipated that strikes will be rare.  Furthermore,
if strikes do occur, they may be enjoined by the courts.  Additionally, because the only legal subject of bargaining
is the base wage rates, all bargaining over items such as just cause, benefits, and terms of conditions of employment
are prohibited and cannot be included in a collective bargaining agreement.  Impasse resolution for public safety
employees and transit employees is subject to final and binding arbitration procedures, which do not include a right
to strike.  Interest arbitration is available for transit employees if certain conditions are met.
The following bargaining unit represents employees of the City:
Bargaining Unit
Expiration Date of 
Current Contract
City of River Falls Professional Police Association
December 31, 2021
27
85
OTHER POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
The City provides "other post-employment benefits" ("OPEB") (i.e., post-employment benefits, other than pension
benefits, owed to its employees and former employees) to employees who have terminated their employment with
the City and have satisfied specified eligibility standards through a single-employer plan. Eligible retirees may remain
on the City’s group health plan but are responsible for payment of the full premiums.  Membership of the plan
consisted of 8 retirees receiving benefits and 56 active eligible plan members as of December 31, 2019, the date of
the latest actuarial valuation.
OPEB calculations are required to be updated every two years. Prior to fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2017,
OPEB calculations were required to be prepared in accordance with Statement No. 45 of the Governmental
Accounting Standards Board ("GASB 45") regarding retiree health and life insurance benefits, and related standards.
For fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2017, OPEB calculations are required to be prepared in accordance with
Statement No. 75 of the Governmental Accounting Standards Board ("GASB 75"). The City had an actuarial study
for the plan prepared in accordance with GASB 75 by Nyhart, in April 2020 with an actuarial valuation date of
December 31, 2019. 
For Fiscal Year 2019, benefit payments for the plan totaled $51,861. The City's current funding practice is to make
annual contributions to the plan in amounts at least equal to the benefits paid to retirees in a particular year on a
"pay-as-you-go" basis.
Under GASB 75, a net OPEB liability (or asset) is calculated as the difference between the plan's total OPEB liability
and the plan's fiduciary net position, which terms have similar meanings as under GASB 68 for pension plans.
As of December 31, 2019, the plan's total OPEB liability was $795,280 and the plan fiduciary net position was $0,
resulting in a net OPEB liability of $795,280. 
The calculation of the total OPEB liability and fiduciary net position are subject to a number of actuarial assumptions,
which may change in future actuarial valuations. For more detailed information regarding such actuarial assumptions,
see Note IV.E. in "APPENDIX A - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS" attached hereto.
LITIGATION
There is no litigation threatened or pending questioning the organization or boundaries of the City or the right of any
of its officers to their respective offices or in any manner questioning their rights and power to execute and deliver
the Bonds or otherwise questioning the validity of the Bonds.
MUNICIPAL BANKRUPTCY
Municipalities are prohibited from filing for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 (reorganization) or Chapter 7 (liquidation)
of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. §§ 101-1532) (the "Bankruptcy Code").  Instead, the Bankruptcy Code
permits municipalities to file a petition under Chapter 9 of the Bankruptcy Code, but only if certain requirements are
met.  These requirements include that the municipality must be "specifically authorized" under State law to file for
relief under Chapter 9.  For these purposes, "State law" may include, without limitation, statutes of general
applicability enacted by the State legislature, special legislation applicable to a particular municipality, and/or
executive orders issued by an appropriate officer of the State’s executive branch.
As of the date hereof, Wisconsin law contains no express authority for municipalities to file for bankruptcy relief
under Chapter 9 of the Bankruptcy Code.  
28
86
Nevertheless, there can be no assurance (a) that State law will not change in the future, while the Bonds are
outstanding, in a way that would allow the City to file for bankruptcy relief under Chapter 9 of the Bankruptcy Code;
or (b) even absent such a change in State law, that an executive order or other executive action could not effectively
authorize the City to file for relief under Chapter 9.  If, in the future, the City were to file a bankruptcy case under
Chapter 9, the relevant bankruptcy court would need to consider whether the City could properly do so, which would
involve questions regarding State law authority as well as other questions such as whether the City is a municipality
for bankruptcy purposes.  If the relevant bankruptcy court concluded that the City could properly file a bankruptcy
case, and that determination was not reversed, vacated, or otherwise substantially altered on appeal, then the rights
of holders of the Bonds could be modified in bankruptcy proceedings.  Such modifications could be adverse to
holders of the Bonds, and there could ultimately be no assurance that holders of the Bonds would be paid in full or
in part on the Bonds.  Further, under such circumstances, there could be no assurance that the Bonds would not be
treated as general, unsecured debt by a bankruptcy court, meaning that claims of holders of the Bonds could be
viewed as having no priority (a) over claims of other creditors of the City; (b) to any particular assets of the City, or
(c) to revenues otherwise designated for payment to holders of the Bonds.
 
Moreover, if the City were determined not to be a "municipality" for the purposes of the Bankruptcy Code, no
representations can be made regarding whether it would still be eligible for voluntary or involuntary relief under
Chapters of the Bankruptcy Code other than Chapter 9 or under similar federal or state law or equitable proceeding
regarding insolvency or providing for protection from creditors.  In any such case, there can be no assurance that the
consequences described above for the holders of the Bonds would not occur.
FUNDS ON HAND (as of April 30, 2020)
Fund
Total Cash
and Investments
General
$
6,670,519
Special Revenue
5,324,004
Debt Service
474,040
Capital Projects
2,653,218
Enterprise Funds
12,142,785
157,443
Total Funds on Hand
$
27,422,009
29
87
ENTERPRISE FUNDS
Revenues available for debt service for the City's enterprise funds have been as follows as of December 31 each year:
2017
Audit
2018
Audit
2019
Draft Audit
Electric
Total Operating Revenues
$ 13,702,434
$ 13,925,113
$ 13,496,541
Less: Operating Expenses
(12,699,469)
(12,895,698)
(12,721,855)
Operating Income
$
1,002,965
$
1,029,415
$
774,686
Plus: Depreciation
789,972
953,446
1,054,918
Interest Income
58,775
100,169
127,662
Revenues Available for Debt Service
$
1,851,712
$
2,083,030
$
1,957,266
Water 
Total Operating Revenues
$
1,741,405
$
1,799,546
$
1,761,278
Less: Operating Expenses
(1,307,626)
(1,307,875)
(1,409,667)
Operating Income
$
433,779
$
491,671
$
351,611
Plus: Depreciation
441,491
451,377
451,514
Interest Income
13,007
36,637
57,010
Revenues Available for Debt Service
$
888,277
$
979,685
$
860,135
Sewer
Total Operating Revenues
$
3,356,395
$
3,212,002
$
3,216,767
Less: Operating Expenses
(2,251,369)
(2,268,423)
(2,555,626)
Operating Income
$
1,105,026
$
943,579
$
661,141
Plus: Depreciation
667,086
547,084
740,827
Interest Income
37,349
78,693
110,678
Revenues Available for Debt Service
$
1,809,461
$
1,569,356
$
1,512,646
30
88
SUMMARY GENERAL FUND INFORMATION
Following are summaries of the revenues and expenditures and fund balances for the City's General Fund.  These summaries are not
purported to be the complete audited financial statements of the City, and potential purchasers should read the included financial
statements in their entirety for more complete information concerning the City.  Copies of the complete statements are available upon
request.  Appendix A includes the City’s draft 2019 audited and 2018 audited financial statements.
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31
COMBINED STATEMENT
2016
Audited
2017
Audited
2018
Audited
2019 Draft
Audited
2020
Adopted
Budget1
Revenues
Property taxes
$ 3,506,465
$ 3,897,058
$ 4,200,495
$ 4,394,080
$
4,597,701
Special assessments
703
44,135
364
14,883
0
Intergovernmental
3,227,273
3,245,913
3,378,321
3,569,452
3,416,729
Licenses and permits
408,250
358,334
367,839
477,097
185,700
Fines and forfeitures
194,402
196,573
190,385
180,685
205,000
Public charges for services
254,571
211,877
351,485
238,765
385,155
Intergovernmental charges for services
20,170
40,398
23,072
20,498
0
Investment income
266,517
244,902
258,813
367,911
304,000
Other miscellaneous revenues
244,173
101,882
153,581
146,490
65,459
Total Revenues
$ 8,122,524
$ 8,341,072
$ 8,924,355
$ 9,409,861
$
9,159,744
Expenditures
Current:
General government
$ 1,762,821
$ 1,986,644
$ 1,883,391
$ 1,850,372
$
2,089,309
Public safety
3,469,993
3,506,208
3,665,080
3,747,165
4,217,224
Public works
2,012,340
2,156,824
2,312,217
2,002,747
2,132,969
Health services
3,710
1,864
1,781
3,281
3,775
Leisure activities
676,708
714,259
745,688
778,937
804,353
Conservation and development
637,497
714,215
716,132
836,013
777,019
Debt service
246,927
234,944
153,635
169,652
235,852
Contingency
0
0
0
0
50,234
Total Expenditures
$ 8,809,996
$ 9,314,958
$ 9,477,924
$ 9,388,167
$ 10,310,735
Excess of revenues over (under) expenditures
$
(687,472)
$
(973,886)
$
(553,569)
$
21,694
$ (1,150,991)
Other Financing Sources (Uses)
Property sales
$ 1,892,897
$
10,839
$
6,337
$
36,548
$
0
Transfers in
1,763,871
1,827,735
1,691,697
2,019,692
1,795,841
Transfers out
(414,206)
(808,539)
(723,997)
(1,591,418)
(644,850)
Total Other Financing Sources (Uses)
$ 3,242,562
$ 1,030,035
$
974,037
$
464,822
$
1,150,991
Net Changes in Fund Balances
$ 2,555,090
$
56,149
$
420,468
$
486,516
$
0
General Fund Balance January 1
7,103,440
9,658,530
9,714,679
10,135,147
10,621,663
General Fund Balance December 31
$ 9,658,530
$ 9,714,679
$10,135,147
$10,621,663
$ 10,621,663
DETAILS OF DECEMBER 31 FUND BALANCE
Nonspendable
$5,348,989
$5,593,387
$5,004,881
$4,679,384
Restricted
0
0
0
0
Committed
0
0
0
0
Assigned
0
0
0
0
Unassigned
4,309,541
4,121,292
5,130,266
5,942,279
Total
$ 9,658,530
$ 9,714,679
$10,135,147
$10,621,663
1
The 2020 budget was adopted on December 1, 2019.
31
89
GENERAL INFORMATION
LOCATION
The City, with a 2010 U.S. Census population of 15,000 and a current estimated population of 15,835, comprises an
area of 6.56 square miles is located approximately 30 miles east of the Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area.  
LARGER EMPLOYERS1 
Larger employers in the City include the following:
Firm
Type of Business/Product
Estimated No.
of Employees
University of Wisconsin - River Falls
Post-secondary education
850
School District of River Falls
Elementary and secondary education
516
Rise Bakery Company
Bakers
377
River Falls Area Hospital
Hospital
250
The City
Municipal government and services
175
Minnesota Rubber & Plastics
Rubber and plastic component manufacturer
130
Family Fresh Market
Grocery store
130
School Food Services
Food service management
125
Turnkey Corrections
Financial advisory service
125
BioDiagnostics, Inc.
Genetic testing
120
Source:
ReferenceUSA, written and telephone survey (May 2020), Wisconsin Manufacturers Register, and the
Wisconsin Department of Workforce Development.
1
This does not purport to be a comprehensive list and is based on available data obtained through a survey of
individual employers, as well as the sources identified above.  Some employers do not respond to inquiries for
employment data.  Estimates provided are accurate as of the date noted and may not reflect changes in the number
of employees resulting from the current COVID-19 pandemic. (See  "RISK FACTORS - Impact of the Spread
of COVID-19"). 
32
90
BUILDING PERMITS
2016
2017
2018
2019
20201
New Single Family Homes
No. of building permits
51
59
50
76
25
Valuation
$8,827,888
$9,957,790
$9,629,000
$14,737,815
$5,449,720
New Multiple Family Buildings
No. of building permits
2
0
1
9
1
Valuation
$1,595,000
$0
$795,000
$14,400,000
$6,185,831
New Commercial/Industrial
No. of building permits
6
5
7
2
0
Valuation
$31,488,311
$3,535,704
$11,924,551
$570,000
$0
All Building Permits
(including additions and remodelings)
No. of building permits
272
251
237
311
66
Valuation
$47,595,221
$21,185,600
$30,371,459
$59,770,504
$12,154,170
Source:
The City. 
1
As of April 30, 2020.
33
91
U.S. CENSUS DATA
Population Trend:  The City
2000 U.S. Census
12,560
2010 U.S. Census
15,000
2019 Estimated Population
15,835
Percent of Change 2000 - 2010
19.43%
Income and Age Statistics 
The City
Pierce County
State of
Wisconsin
United
States
2018 per capita income
$27,702
$32,525
$32,018
$32,621
2018 median household income
$59,879
$72,111
$59,209
$60,293
2018 median family income
$85,000
$86,749
$75,313
$73,965
2018 median gross rent
$856
$853
$837
$1,023
2018 median value owner occupied units
$185,100
$197,500
$173,600
$204,900
2018 median age
25.9 yrs.
36.8 yrs.
39.3 yrs.
37.9 yrs.
State of Wisconsin
United States
City % of 2018 per capita income 
86.52%
84.92%
City % of 2018 median family income
112.86%
114.92%
Housing Statistics
The City
2010
2018
Percent of Change
All Housing Units
5,449
5,645
3.60%
Source:
2000 and 2010 Census of Population and Housing, and 2018 American Community Survey (Based on a
five-year estimate), U.S. Census Bureau (https://data.census.gov/cedsci).
EMPLOYMENT/UNEMPLOYMENT DATA
Rates are not compiled for individual communities with populations under 25,000.
Average Employment
     Average Unemployment
Year
Pierce County
Pierce County
State of Wisconsin
2016
23,723
4.0%
4.0%
2017
24,328
3.4%
3.3%
2018
24,650
3.2%
3.0%
2019
24,504
3.4%
3.3%
2020, April1 
21,606
17.4%
14.6%
Source:
Wisconsin Department of Workforce Development.
1
Preliminary.
34
92
APPENDIX A
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Potential purchasers should read the included financial statements in their entirety for more complete information
concerning the City’s financial position. Such financial statements have been audited by the Auditor, to the extent
and for the periods indicated thereon. The City expects delivery of the draft financial statements for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2019 in substantially the form attached hereto, but such financial statements are subject to
further revision.  The City has not requested or engaged the Auditor to perform, and the Auditor has not performed,
any additional examination, assessments, procedures or evaluation with respect to such financial statements since
the date thereof or with respect to this Official Statement, nor has the City requested that the Auditor consent to the
use of such financial statements in this Official Statement. Although the inclusion of the financial statements in this
Official Statement is not intended to demonstrate the fiscal condition of the City since the date of the financial
statements, in connection with the issuance of the Bonds, the City represents that there have been no material adverse
change in the financial position or results of operations of the City, nor has the City incurred any material liabilities,
which would make such financial statements misleading.   
Copies of the complete audited financial statements for the past three years and the current budget are available upon
request from Ehlers.
A-1
93
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
River Falls, Wisconsin
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Including Independent Auditors' Report
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-2
94
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Page(s)
Independent Auditors' Report
i - iii
Required Supplementary Information
Management's Discussion and Analysis
iv - xiv
Basic Financial Statements
Government-Wide Financial Statements
Statement of Net Position
1 - 2
Statement of Activities
3 - 4
Fund Financial Statements
Balance Sheet - Governmental Funds
5 - 6
Reconciliation of the Balance Sheet of Governmental Funds to the Statement of
Net Position
7
Statement of Revenues, Expenditures and Changes in Fund Balances -
Governmental Funds
8 - 9
Reconciliation of the Statement of Revenues, Expenditures and Changes in
Fund Balances of Governmental Funds to the Statement of Activities
10
Statement of Net Position - Proprietary Funds
11 - 14
Statement of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Net Position - Proprietary
Funds
15 - 16
Statement of Cash Flows - Proprietary Funds
17 - 20
Statement of Fiduciary Net Position - Fiduciary Fund
21
Statement of Changes in Fiduciary Net Position - Fiduciary Fund
22
Index to Notes to Financial Statements
23
Notes to Financial Statements
24 - 77
Required Supplementary Information
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures and Changes in Fund Balance - Budget and
Actual - General Fund 
78
Schedule of Revenues, Expenditures and Changes in Fund Balance - Budget and
Actual - Tax Increment District #10 
79
Schedule of Changes in the Total OPEB Liability and Related Ratios
80
Schedule of Proportionate Share of the Net Pension Asset (Liability) - Wisconsin
Retirement System
81
Schedule of Employer Contributions - Wisconsin Retirement System
81
Notes to Required Supplementary Information
82
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont.)
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Page(s)
Supplementary Information
Detailed Schedule of Revenues and Other Financing Sources - Budget and Actual
- General Fund 
83 - 84
Detailed Schedule of Expenditures and Other Financing Uses - Budget and Actual -
General Fund 
85
Combining Balance Sheet - Nonmajor Governmental Funds
86 - 90
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenditures and Changes in Fund Balances -
Nonmajor Governmental Funds
91 - 96
Combining Statement of Net Position - Nonmajor Enterprise Funds
97
Combining Statement of Revenue, Expenses and Changes in Fund Net Position -
Nonmajor Enterprise Funds
98
Combining Statement of Cash Flows - Nonmajor Enterprise Funds
99
Combining Statement of Net Position - Internal Services Funds
100 - 101
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Fund Net Position -
Internal Service Funds
102 - 103
Combining Statement of Cash Flows - Internal Service Funds
104 - 105
Balance Sheet - Governmental Component Unit
106
Statement of Revenues, Expenditures and Changes in Fund Balances -
Governmental Component Unit
107
Electric Utility Plant
108 - 109
Electric Utility Operating Revenues and Expenses
110 - 111
Water Utility Plant
112
Water Utility Operating Revenues and Expenses
113 - 114
Sewer Utility Plant
115
Sewer Utility Operating Revenues and Expenses
116 - 117
Insurance Summary
118
Water Utility Revenue Bond Disclosure – Water Sales to General Customers
119
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-3
95
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
To the City Council
City of River Falls
River Falls, Wisconsin
Report on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of the governmental activities, the business-type
activities, each major fund, and the aggregate discretely presented component unit and remaining fund
information of the City of River Falls, Wisconsin, as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019, and the
related notes to the financial statements, which collectively comprise the City of River Falls' basic financial
statements as listed in the table of contents.
Management's Responsibility for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America; this includes the design,
implementation, and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors' Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our
audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditors' judgment, including the assessment of
the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk
assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the City of River Falls' preparation and fair
presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the City of River Falls'
internal control. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness
of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinions.
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-4
96
Opinions
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the respective
financial position of the governmental activities, the business-type activities, each major fund, and the aggregate
discretely presented component unit and remaining fund information of the City of River Falls, Wisconsin, as of
December 31, 2019 and the respective changes in financial position and, where applicable, cash flows thereof
for the year then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.
Emphasis of Matter
As discussed in Note I, the City of River Falls adopted the provisions of GASB Statement No. 84, Fiduciary
Activities, effective January 1, 2019. Our opinions are not modified with respect to this matter.
Other Matters
Required Supplementary Information
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America require that the required supplementary
information as listed in the table of contents be presented to supplement the basic financial statements. Such
information, although not a part of the basic financial statements, is required by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board who considers it to be an essential part of financial reporting for placing the basic financial
statements in an appropriate operational, economic, or historical context. We have applied certain limited
procedures to the required supplementary information in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States of America, which consisted of inquiries of management about the methods of preparing the
information and comparing the information for consistency with management's responses to our inquiries, the
basic financial statements, and other knowledge we obtained during our audit of the basic financial statements.
We do not express an opinion or provide any assurance on the information because the limited procedures do
not provide us with sufficient evidence to express an opinion or provide any assurance.
Supplementary Information
Our audit for the year ended December 31, 2019 was conducted for the purpose of forming opinions on the
financial statements that collectively comprise the City of River Falls' basic financial statements. The
supplementary information for the year ended December 31, 2019 as listed in the table of contents is presented
for purposes of additional analysis and is not a required part of the basic financial statements. Such information
is the responsibility of management and was derived from and relates directly to the underlying accounting and
other records used to prepare the basic financial statements. The information has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2019, and
certain additional procedures, including comparing and reconciling such information directly to the underlying
accounting and other records used to prepare the basic financial statements or to the basic financial statements
themselves, and other additional procedures in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States of America. In our opinion, the supplementary information is fairly stated in all material respects, in
relation to the basic financial statements as a whole for the year ended December 31, 2019.
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-5
97
We also previously audited, in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America, the basic financial statements of the City of River Falls as of and for the year ended December 31,
2018 (not presented herein), and have issued our report thereon dated July 2, 2019, which contained unmodified
opinions on the respective financial statements of the governmental activities, the business-type activities, each
major fund, and the aggregate discretely presented component unit and remaining fund information. The
supplementary information for the year ended December 31, 2018 is presented for purposes of additional
analysis and is not a required part of the basic financial statements. Such information is the responsibility of
management and was derived from and relates directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to
prepare the 2018 financial statements. The information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in
the audit of the 2018 basic financial statements and certain additional procedures, including comparing and
reconciling such information directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare those
financial statements or to those financial statements themselves, and other additional procedures in accordance
with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. In our opinion, the supplementary
information is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the basic financial statements as a whole for the
year ended December 31, 2018.
Eau Claire, Wisconsin
___________, 2020
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-6
98
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
STATEMENT OF NET POSITION
As of December 31, 2019
Primary Government
Component
Unit
Governmental
Activities
Business-type
Activities
Totals
Business
Improvement
District
ASSETS
Cash and investments
$ 12,057,355
$
9,143,494
$ 21,200,849
$
18,400
Receivables (net)
Taxes
8,259,196
-
8,259,196
-
Accounts
468,757
2,220,607
2,689,364
-
Special assessments
76,052
-
76,052
42,000
Accrued interest
10,287
-
10,287
-
Loans
469,748
5,682
475,430
-
Other receivables
847
90,958
91,805
-
Inventories and prepaid items
698,080
589,384
1,287,464
-
Due from other governments
6,435
-
6,435
-
Internal balances
1,540,910
(1,540,910)
-
-
Other assets
-
302,605
302,605
-
Restricted Assets
Cash and investments
-
3,231,957
3,231,957
-
Capital Assets
Land
13,366,292
365,000
13,731,292
-
Construction in progress
5,645,970
1,972,340
7,618,310
-
Other capital assets, net of depreciation
41,654,935
60,989,946
102,644,881
-
Total Assets
84,254,864
77,371,063
161,625,927
60,400
DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Deferred charge on refunding
278,473
77,867
356,340
-
Pension related amounts
3,813,101
1,702,826
5,515,927
-
OPEB related amounts
123,122
24,150
147,272
-
Total Deferred Outflows of Resources
4,214,696
1,804,843
6,019,539
-
LIABILITIES
Accounts payable
443,570
959,937
1,403,507
-
Accrued liabilities
304,429
225,567
529,996
-
Accrued interest
178,541
57,211
235,752
-
Deposits
78,570
94,816
173,386
-
Unearned revenues
3,155,016
-
3,155,016
-
Noncurrent Liabilities
Due within one year
3,583,836
1,128,585
4,712,421
-
Due in more than one year
18,453,156
10,427,047
28,880,203
-
Total Liabilities
26,197,118
12,893,163
39,090,281
-
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Unearned revenues
8,263,154
-
8,263,154
-
Pension related amounts
1,974,037
857,862
2,831,899
-
OPEB related amounts
24,957
4,895
29,852
-
Total Deferred Inflows of Resources
10,262,148
862,757
11,124,905
-
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-7
99
Primary Government
Component
Unit
Governmental
Activities
Business-type
Activities
Totals
Business
Improvement
District
NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets (see Note
I.D.10)
$ 43,720,649
$ 53,731,208
$ 95,741,133
$
-
Restricted for
Debt service
-
788,304
788,304
-
Capital asset repair and replacement
-
990,625
990,625
-
Impact fee projects
252,349
433,195
685,544
-
Library trust
156,144
-
156,144
-
Housing
909,343
-
909,343
-
Parking improvements
66,155
-
66,155
-
Refuse/solid waste
79,166
-
79,166
-
Environmental fee
3,104,372
-
3,104,372
-
Library
116,470
-
116,470
-
Shared ride taxi
31,282
-
31,282
-
Tax increment districts
415,694
-
415,694
-
Loan programs
84,703
-
84,703
-
Unrestricted
3,073,967
9,476,654
14,261,345
60,400
TOTAL NET POSITION
$ 52,010,294
$ 65,419,986
$117,430,280
$
60,400
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-8
100
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Program Revenues
Functions/Programs
Expenses
Charges for
Services
Operating
Grants and
Contributions
Capital 
Grants and
Contributions
Primary Government
Governmental Activities
General government
$
2,485,240
$
465,285
$
-
$
-
Public safety
4,063,229
212,384
587,442
-
Public works
4,015,943
786,994
926,021
611,141
Health services
20,049
-
-
-
Leisure activities
2,288,175
329,849
374,974
-
Conservation and development
4,708,079
146,136
-
-
Interest and fiscal charges
797,244
-
-
-
Total Governmental Activities
18,377,959
1,940,648
1,888,437
611,141
Business-type Activities
Electric utility
12,991,264
13,496,541
-
247,246
Water utility
1,511,936
1,761,278
-
836,546
Sewer utility
2,789,464
3,216,767
-
511,945
Stormwater
570,584
568,676
-
130,243
Ambulance
1,890,029
1,423,993
9,101
-
Total Business-type Activities
19,753,277
20,467,255
9,101
1,725,980
Total Primary Government
$
38,131,236
$ 22,407,903
$
1,897,538
$
2,337,121
Component Unit
Business Improvement District
$
50,511
$
42,000
$
-
$
-
General Revenues
Taxes
Property taxes, levied for general purposes
Property taxes, levied for debt service
Property taxes, levied for TIF districts
Other taxes
Intergovernmental revenues not restricted to specific programs
Investment income
Miscellaneous
Total General Revenues
Transfers
Change in net position
NET POSITION - Beginning of Year
NET POSITION - END OF YEAR
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-9
101
Net (Expenses) Revenues and Changes in Net Position
Primary Government
Component Unit
Governmental
Activities
Business-type
Activities
Totals
Business
Improvement
District
$
(2,019,955) $
-
$
(2,019,955) $
-
(3,263,403)
-
(3,263,403)
-
(1,691,787)
-
(1,691,787)
-
(20,049)
-
(20,049)
-
(1,583,352)
-
(1,583,352)
-
(4,561,943)
-
(4,561,943)
-
(797,244)
-
(797,244)
-
(13,937,733)
-
(13,937,733)
-
-
752,523
752,523
-
-
1,085,888
1,085,888
-
-
939,248
939,248
-
-
128,335
128,335
-
-
(456,935)
(456,935)
-
-
2,449,059
2,449,059
-
(13,937,733)
2,449,059
(11,488,674)
-
-
-
-
(8,511)
6,356,489
-
6,356,489
-
198,502
-
198,502
-
1,294,550
-
1,294,550
-
230,774
-
230,774
-
2,365,686
-
2,365,686
-
577,445
308,872
886,317
-
753,536
25,179
778,715
-
11,776,982
334,051
12,111,033
-
1,792,389
(1,792,389)
-
-
(368,362)
990,721
622,359
(8,511)
52,378,656
64,429,265
116,807,921
68,911
$
52,010,294
$
65,419,986
$ 117,430,280
$
60,400
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-10
102
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
BALANCE SHEET
GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS
As of December 31, 2019
General Fund
Tax
Increment
District #10
General
Capital
Projects
Nonmajor
Governmental
Funds
Totals
ASSETS
Cash and investments
$
5,865,359
$
51,795
$
2,048,762
$
3,968,155
$ 11,934,071
Receivables
Taxes
4,508,514
426,534
253,352
3,070,796
8,259,196
Accounts
250,882
-
7,000
210,875
468,757
Special assessments
55,347
-
20,705
-
76,052
Accrued interest
7,482
-
-
2,805
10,287
Loans
-
-
190,936
278,812
469,748
Prepaid items and inventories
45,425
-
139
632,719
678,283
Due from other funds
506,012
-
-
-
506,012
Due from other governments
-
-
-
6,435
6,435
Advances to other funds
4,633,959
-
500,000
1,500,000
6,633,959
TOTAL ASSETS
$ 15,872,980
$
478,329
$
3,020,894
$
9,670,597
$ 29,042,800
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-11
103
General Fund
Tax
Increment
District #10
General
Capital
Projects
Nonmajor
Governmental
Funds
Totals
LIABILITIES, DEFERRED
INFLOWS OF RESOURCES,
AND FUND BALANCES
Liabilities
Accounts payable
$
241,244
$
500
$
148,288
$
41,919
$
431,951
Accrued liabilities
257,823
-
-
29,059
286,882
Deposits
65,880
8,000
-
4,690
78,570
Unearned revenues
-
-
3,155,016
-
3,155,016
Due to other funds
-
-
-
353,097
353,097
Advances from other funds
-
3,422,711
-
3,211,248
6,633,959
Total Liabilities
564,947
3,431,211
3,303,304
3,640,013
10,939,475
Deferred Inflows of Resources
Unearned revenues
4,504,385
426,534
261,439
3,070,796
8,263,154
Unavailable revenues
181,985
-
207,804
287,497
677,286
Total Deferred Inflows
of Resources
4,686,370
426,534
469,243
3,358,293
8,940,440
Fund Balances
Nonspendable
4,679,384
-
500,139
632,719
5,812,242
Restricted
-
-
-
4,968,630
4,968,630
Committed
-
-
-
206,573
206,573
Unassigned (deficit)
5,942,279
(3,379,416)
(1,251,792)
(3,135,631)
(1,824,560)
Total Fund Balances
10,621,663
(3,379,416)
(751,653)
2,672,291
9,162,885
TOTAL
LIABILITIES,
DEFERRED
INFLOWS OF
RESOURCES,
AND FUND
BALANCES
$ 15,872,980
$
478,329
$
3,020,894
$
9,670,597
$ 29,042,800
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-12
104
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
RECONCILIATION OF THE BALANCE SHEET OF GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS
TO THE STATEMENT OF NET POSITION
As of December 31, 2019
Total Fund Balances - Governmental Funds
$
9,162,885
Amounts reported for governmental activities in the statement of net position are
different because:
Capital assets used in governmental funds are not financial resources and,
therefore, are not reported in the funds. See Note III.D.
60,667,197
  Less: Internal service fund included below
(213,717)
Some receivables that are not currently available are reported as unavailable
revenues in the fund financial statements but are recognized as revenue when
earned in the government-wide statements. See Note III.B.
677,286
The net pension liability does not relate to current financial resources and is not
reported in the governmental funds.
(1,362,892)
Add: Internal service fund included below
79,516
Deferred outflows of resources do not relate to current financial resources and are
not reported in the governmental funds.
Deferred outflows - pension related amounts
3,813,101
Deferred outflows - OPEB related amounts
123,122
Less: Internal service fund included below
(168,885)
Deferred inflows of resources do not relate to current financial resources and are
not reported in the governmental funds.
Deferred inflows - pension related amounts
(1,974,037)
Deferred inflows - OPEB related amounts
(24,957)
Add: Internal service fund included below
91,095
Governmental funds report the effect of losses on refunding, discounts, premiums,
and similar items when debt is first issued, whereas these items are deferred and
amortized in the statement of activities.
(162,942)
Internal service funds are reported in the statement of net position as governmental
activities.
1,714,748
Some liabilities, including long-term debt, are not due and payable in the current
period and, therefore, are not reported in the funds.
Bonds and notes payable
(19,215,568)
Compensated absences
(225,371)
Accrued interest
(178,541)
Landfill postclosure care cost
(126,877)
Other postemployment benefits
(664,869)
NET POSITION OF GOVERNMENTAL ACTIVITIES
$
52,010,294
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-13
105
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
STATEMENT OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES, AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES -
GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
General Fund
Tax
Increment
District #10
General
Capital
Projects
Nonmajor
Governmental
Funds
Totals
REVENUES
Taxes
$
4,394,080
$
415,641
$
219,740
$
3,050,718
$ 8,080,179
Special assessments
14,883
-
4,279
2,500
21,662
Intergovernmental
3,569,452
679
630,399
665,015
4,865,545
Licenses and permits
477,097
-
-
-
477,097
Fines, forfeitures and penalties
180,685
-
-
-
180,685
Public charges for services
238,765
-
-
1,139,454
1,378,219
Intergovernmental charges for
services
20,498
-
-
-
20,498
Investment income
367,911
5,359
70,883
135,768
579,921
Miscellaneous
146,490
7,344
186,066
215,383
555,283
Total Revenues
9,409,861
429,023
1,111,367
5,208,838
16,159,089
EXPENDITURES
Current
General government
1,850,372
-
-
-
1,850,372
Public safety
3,747,165
-
-
9,549
3,756,714
Public works
2,002,747
-
-
956,988
2,959,735
Health services
3,281
-
-
-
3,281
Leisure activities
778,937
-
-
1,119,935
1,898,872
Conservation and
development
836,013
7,787
-
385,417
1,229,217
Capital Outlay
-
464,145
5,558,839
1,097,837
7,120,821
Debt Service
Principal retirement
146,191
204,809
28,414
1,262,888
1,642,302
Interest and fiscal charges
23,461
132,228
39,434
627,863
822,986
Total Expenditures
9,388,167
808,969
5,626,687
5,460,477
21,284,300
Excess (deficiency) of revenues
over expenditures
21,694
(379,946)
(4,515,320)
(251,639)
(5,125,211)
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-14
106
General Fund
Tax
Increment
District #10
General
Capital
Projects
Nonmajor
Governmental
Funds
Totals
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES
(USES)
Long-term debt issued
$
-
$
350,000
$
1,750,000
$
538,000
$ 2,638,000
Transfers from other funds
2,019,692
92,157
151,000
1,122,985
3,385,834
Transfers to other funds
(1,591,418)
(29,799)
(226,668)
(755,578)
(2,603,463)
Property sales
36,548
-
-
447,300
483,848
Total Other Financing
Sources (Uses)
464,822
412,358
1,674,332
1,352,707
3,904,219
Net Change in Fund Balances
486,516
32,412
(2,840,988)
1,101,068
(1,220,992)
FUND BALANCES (DEFICIT) -
Beginning of Year
10,135,147
(3,411,828)
2,089,335
1,571,223
10,383,877
FUND BALANCES
(DEFICIT) - END OF YEAR $ 10,621,663
$ (3,379,416) $
(751,653) $
2,672,291
$ 9,162,885
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-15
107
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
RECONCILIATION OF THE STATEMENT OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES,
 AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES OF GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS
TO THE STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Net change in fund balances - total governmental funds
$
(1,220,992)
Amounts reported for governmental activities in the statement of activities are different
because:
Governmental funds report capital outlays as expenditures. However, in the statement of
net position the cost of these assets is capitalized and they are depreciated/amortized
over their estimated useful lives and reported as depreciation/amortization expense in the
statement of activities.
Capital outlay is reported as an expenditure in the fund financial statements but is
capitalized in the government-wide financial statements
7,120,821
Some items reported as capital outlay were not capitalized
(169,326)
Depreciation is reported in the government-wide financial statements
(1,474,073)
Net book value of assets retired
(3,680,030)
Receivables not currently available are reported as revenue when collected or currently
available in the fund financial statements but are recognized as revenue when earned in
the government-wide financial statements.
(126,280)
Debt issued provides current financial resources to governmental funds, but issuing debt
increases long-term liabilities in the statement of net position. Repayment of debt principal
is an expenditure in the governmental funds, but the repayment reduces long-term
liabilities in the statement of net position.
Debt issued
(2,638,000)
Principal repaid
1,642,302
Interest on long-term debt in the statement of activities differs from the amount reported in
the fund financial statements because interest is recorded as an expenditure in the funds
when it is due, and thus requires the use of current financial resources. In the statement
of activities, interest expense is recognized as the interest accrues regardless of when it
is due.
18,251
Governmental funds report debt premiums, discounts, and gains or losses on refunding in
the year incurred. However, in the statement of net position, these are reported as other
assets or deductions from long-term debt.  These are allocated over the period the debt is
outstanding in the statement of activities. In 2019, $30,105 of the deferred charge on
refunding was amortized, and $37,596 of the premium was amortized.
7,491
Some expenses in the statement of activities do not require the use of current financial
resources and, therefore, are not reported as expenditures in the governmental funds. 
Compensated absences
127,164
Other postemployment benefits and OPEB related deferrals
(36,674)
Landfill postclosure care costs
11,293
Net pension liability and pension related deferrals
(521,629)
Internal service funds are used by management to charge certain costs to other funds. The
change in net position of the internal service fund that is reported with governmental
activities.
571,320
CHANGE IN NET POSITION OF GOVERNMENTAL ACTIVITIES
$
(368,362)
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-16
108
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
STATEMENT OF NET POSITION
PROPRIETARY FUNDS
As of December 31, 2019
Business-type Activities - Enterprise Funds
Electric Utility
Water Utility
Sewer Utility
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and investments
$
3,991,275
$
2,356,087
$
2,062,679
Receivables (net)
Accounts
1,085,330
142,782
296,542
Other receivables
33,553
33,346
24,059
Current portion of loan receivable
2,494
-
-
Inventories
565,703
-
-
Prepaid items
12,245
2,142
3,851
Restricted Assets
Redemption account
191,319
92,565
557,093
Total Current Assets
5,881,919
2,626,922
2,944,224
Noncurrent Assets
Restricted Assets
Reserve account
258,381
173,279
535,500
Impact fee account
-
-
433,195
Replacement account
-
-
990,625
Capital Assets
Land
122,960
23,120
117,622
Construction in progress
870,155
165,900
871,935
Property and equipment
31,694,653
21,051,561
33,191,596
Less: Accumulated depreciation
(14,212,084)
(6,679,900)
(10,891,554)
Other Assets
Loan receivable
3,188
-
-
Other receivables
-
74,348
57,453
Preliminary survey and investigation
-
153,604
-
Nonutility property
-
-
17,200
Total Noncurrent Assets
18,737,253
14,961,912
25,323,572
Total Assets
24,619,172
17,588,834
28,267,796
DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Deferred charge on refunding
-
-
77,867
Pension related amounts
652,228
216,240
307,597
OPEB related amounts
14,960
1,851
3,931
Total Deferred Outflows of Resources
667,188
218,091
389,395
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-17
109
Business-type Activities -
Enterprise Funds
Nonmajor
Enterprise
Funds
Totals
Governmental
Activities -
Internal
Service Funds
$
733,453
$
9,143,494
$
123,284
695,953
2,220,607
-
-
90,958
847
-
2,494
-
-
565,703
-
5,443
23,681
19,797
-
840,977
-
1,434,849
12,887,914
143,928
-
967,160
-
-
433,195
-
-
990,625
-
101,298
365,000
-
64,350
1,972,340
-
10,739,053
96,676,863
543,343
(3,903,379)
(35,686,917)
(329,626)
-
3,188
-
-
131,801
-
-
153,604
-
-
17,200
-
7,001,322
66,024,059
213,717
8,436,171
78,911,973
357,645
-
77,867
-
526,761
1,702,826
168,885
3,408
24,150
-
530,169
1,804,843
168,885
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-18
110
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
STATEMENT OF NET POSITION
PROPRIETARY FUNDS
As of December 31, 2019
Business-type Activities - Enterprise Funds
Electric Utility
Water Utility
Sewer Utility
LIABILITIES 
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable
$
820,497
$
36,786
$
51,709
Customer deposits
33,199
1,617
-
Accrued liabilities
114,243
21,641
29,527
Accrued interest
-
-
4,538
Due to other funds
-
-
-
Current portion of general obligation debt
-
-
305,000
Current portion of shared services notes payable
2,494
-
-
Current portion of compensated absences
44,581
21,153
22,115
Liabilities Payable from Restricted Assets
Current portion of revenue bonds
220,000
100,000
387,367
Accrued interest
19,712
9,557
23,404
Total Current Liabilities
1,254,726
190,754
823,660
Noncurrent Liabilities
Long-Term Debt
General obligation debt 
-
-
980,000
Revenue bonds
2,085,000
1,385,000
4,971,895
Unamortized debt premium
71,671
2,021
133,151
Shared services notes payable
2,654
-
-
Net pension liability
264,749
87,940
102,832
Other postemployment benefits
80,785
9,996
21,228
Total Noncurrent Liabilities
2,504,859
1,484,957
6,209,106
Total Liabilities
3,759,585
1,675,711
7,032,766
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Pension related amounts
324,508
115,353
157,151
OPEB related amounts
3,032
375
797
Total Deferred Inflows of Resources
327,540
115,728
157,948
NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets
16,357,394
13,246,939
17,125,553
Restricted for
Debt service
171,607
83,008
533,689
Replacement
-
-
990,625
Impact fee projects
-
-
433,195
Unrestricted 
4,670,234
2,685,539
2,383,415
TOTAL NET POSITION
$ 21,199,235
$ 16,015,486
$ 21,466,477
Adjustments to reflect the consolidation of internal service
funds activities related to enterprise funds.
NET POSITION BUSINESS-TYPE ACTIVITIES
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-19
111
Business-type Activities -
Enterprise Funds
Nonmajor
Enterprise
Funds
Totals
Governmental
Activities -
Internal
Service Funds
$
50,945
$
959,937
$
11,619
60,000
94,816
-
60,156
225,567
17,547
-
4,538
-
135,616
135,616
17,299
-
305,000
-
-
2,494
-
25,875
113,724
-
-
707,367
-
-
52,673
-
332,592
2,601,732
46,465
-
980,000
-
-
8,441,895
-
-
206,843
-
-
2,654
-
209,723
665,244
79,516
18,402
130,411
-
228,125
10,427,047
79,516
560,717
13,028,779
125,981
260,850
857,862
91,095
691
4,895
-
261,541
862,757
91,095
7,001,322
53,731,208
213,717
-
788,304
-
-
990,625
-
-
433,195
-
1,142,760
10,881,948
95,737
$
8,144,082
66,825,280
$
309,454
(1,405,294)
$ 65,419,986
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-20
112
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
STATEMENT OF REVENUES, EXPENSES, AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
PROPRIETARY FUNDS
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Business-type Activities - Enterprise Funds
Electric Utility
Water Utility
Sewer Utility
OPERATING REVENUES
Public charges for services
$ 13,496,541
$
1,761,278
$
3,216,767
Total Operating Revenues
13,496,541
1,761,278
3,216,767
OPERATING EXPENSES
Operation and maintenance
11,666,937
958,153
1,814,799
Depreciation
1,054,918
451,514
740,827
Total Operating Expenses
12,721,855
1,409,667
2,555,626
Operating Income (Loss)
774,686
351,611
661,141
NONOPERATING REVENUES (EXPENSES)
Intergovernmental
-
-
-
Investment income
127,662
57,010
110,678
Interest and fiscal charges
(91,282)
(58,707)
(175,263)
Amortization of debt premium and loss on refunding
8,541
178
(451)
Miscellaneous
1,980
-
-
Total Nonoperating Revenues (Expenses)
46,901
(1,519)
(65,036)
Income (Loss) Before Contributions and Transfers
821,587
350,092
596,105
CONTRIBUTIONS AND TRANSFERS
Capital contributions
247,246
836,546
511,945
Transfers from other funds
-
-
-
Transfers to other funds
(976,343)
(447,317)
(189,307)
Total Contributions and Transfers
(729,097)
389,229
322,638
Change in Net Position
92,490
739,321
918,743
NET POSITION - Beginning of Year
21,106,745
15,276,165
20,547,734
NET POSITION - END OF YEAR
$ 21,199,235
$ 16,015,486
$ 21,466,477
Change in Net Position of Enterprise Funds
Adjustment to reflect the consolidation of internal service
funds activities related to enterprise funds
NET POSITION OF BUSINESS-TYPE ACTIVITIES
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-21
113
Business-type Activities -
Enterprise Funds
Nonmajor
Enterprise
Funds
Totals
Governmental
Activities -
Internal
Service Funds
$
1,992,669
$ 20,467,255
$
294,061
1,992,669
20,467,255
294,061
2,105,092
16,544,981
1,019,328
301,434
2,548,693
57,552
2,406,526
19,093,674
1,076,880
(413,857)
1,373,581
(782,819)
9,101
9,101
-
13,522
308,872
457
(1,366)
(326,618)
-
-
8,268
-
23,199
25,179
2,411
44,456
24,802
2,868
(369,401)
1,398,383
(779,951)
130,243
1,725,980
-
-
-
1,305,974
(179,422)
(1,792,389)
(295,956)
(49,179)
(66,409)
1,010,018
(418,580)
1,331,974
230,067
8,562,662
65,493,306
79,387
$
8,144,082
$ 66,825,280
$
309,454
$
1,331,974
(341,253)
$
990,721
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-22
114
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
PROPRIETARY FUNDS
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Business-type Activities - Enterprise Funds
Electric Utility
Water Utility
Sewer Utility
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Received from customers
$ 13,307,164
$
1,795,873
$
3,179,488
Received from municipality for services
220,086
-
-
Paid to suppliers for goods and services
(10,681,673)
(523,660)
(1,229,478)
Paid to employees for services
(854,438)
(403,955)
(536,820)
Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities
1,991,139
868,258
1,413,190
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Investment income
127,662
57,010
110,678
Net Cash Flows From Investing Activities
127,662
57,010
110,678
CASH FLOWS FROM NONCAPITAL FINANCING
ACTIVITIES
Paid to municipality for tax equivalent
(488,026)
(313,151)
-
Debt retired
(2,445)
-
-
Transfers to/from other funds
(488,317)
(134,166)
(189,307)
Net Cash Flows From Noncapital Financing Activities
(978,788)
(447,317)
(189,307)
CASH FLOWS FROM CAPITAL AND RELATED FINANCING
ACTIVITIES
Debt retired
(195,000)
(100,000)
(822,359)
Interest paid
(103,215)
(59,140)
(178,595)
Acquisition and construction of capital assets
(2,151,552)
(181,826)
(571,701)
Proceeds from sale/transfer of capital assets
-
-
-
Capital contributions received
247,246
51,396
104,503
Impact fees received
-
402,117
274,150
Net Cash Flows From Capital and Related Financing
Activities
(2,202,521)
112,547
(1,194,002)
Net Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents
(1,062,508)
590,498
140,559
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS - Beginning of Year
5,503,483
2,031,433
4,438,533
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS - END OF YEAR
$
4,440,975
$
2,621,931
$
4,579,092
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-23
115
Business-type Activities -
Enterprise Funds
Nonmajor
Enterprise
Funds
Totals
Governmental
Activities -
Internal
Service Funds
$
1,990,073
$ 20,272,598
$
299,676
-
220,086
-
(658,616)
(13,093,427)
(925,071)
(1,207,891)
(3,003,104)
(324,652)
123,566
4,396,153
(950,047)
13,522
308,872
457
13,522
308,872
457
-
(801,177)
-
-
(2,445)
-
(179,422)
(991,212)
1,010,018
(179,422)
(1,794,834)
1,010,018
-
(1,117,359)
-
(1,366)
(342,316)
-
-
(2,905,079)
(18,075)
27,398
27,398
-
-
403,145
-
-
676,267
-
26,032
(3,257,944)
(18,075)
(16,302)
(347,753)
42,353
749,755
12,723,204
80,931
$
733,453
$ 12,375,451
$
123,284
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-24
116
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
PROPRIETARY FUNDS
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Business-type Activities - Enterprise Funds
Electric Utility
Water Utility
Sewer Utility
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) TO
NET CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Operating income (loss)
$
774,686
$
351,611
$
661,141
Nonoperating revenue
1,980
-
-
Adjustments to Reconcile Operating Income (Loss) to Net
Cash Flows From Operating Activities
Depreciation
1,054,918
451,514
740,827
Depreciation charged to other funds
-
44,794
(44,794)
Changes in assets, deferred outflows of resources,
liabilities, and deferred inflows of resources
Accounts receivable
58,822
(2,019)
8,595
Other receivables
(15,746)
(8,222)
(1,080)
Inventories
23,383
-
-
Prepaid items
6,353
3,512
8,219
Due from other funds
-
-
-
Accounts payable
12,586
(9,497)
3,114
Due to other funds
-
-
-
Accrued liabilities
3,593
3,861
8,239
Customer deposits
(14,347)
42
-
Compensated absences
4,027
(302)
(58)
Other postemployment benefits and related deferrals
3,194
(3,400)
(4,071)
Pension related deferrals and liability
77,690
36,364
33,058
NET CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING
ACTIVITIES
$
1,991,139
$
868,258
$
1,413,190
RECONCILIATION OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS TO
THE STATEMENT OF NET POSITION - PROPRIETARY
FUNDS
Cash and investments
$
3,991,275
$
2,356,087
$
2,062,679
Restricted cash and investments
449,700
265,844
2,516,413
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
$
4,440,975
$
2,621,931
$
4,579,092
NONCASH CAPITAL AND RELATED FINANCING
ACTIVITIES
Capital contributions receivable
$
-
$
99,132
$
76,604
Capital assets contributed by developers
$
-
$
283,901
$
56,688
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-25
117
Business-type Activities -
Enterprise Funds
Nonmajor
Enterprise
Funds
Totals
Governmental
Activities -
Internal
Service Funds
$
(413,857) $
1,373,581
$
(782,819)
32,300
34,280
2,411
301,434
2,548,693
57,552
-
-
-
(39,896)
25,502
-
-
(25,048)
3,204
-
23,383
-
17,551
35,635
(7,264)
-
-
17,299
41,274
47,477
(5,231)
135,616
135,616
(262,693)
(2,684)
13,009
3,678
5,000
(9,305)
-
828
4,495
-
1,440
(2,837)
-
44,560
191,672
23,816
$
123,566
$
4,396,153
$
(950,047)
$
733,453
$
9,143,494
$
123,284
-
3,231,957
-
$
733,453
$ 12,375,451
$
123,284
$
-
$
-
$
130,243
$
-
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-26
118
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
STATEMENT OF FIDUCIARY NET POSITION
FIDUCIARY FUND
As of December 31, 2019
Custodial Fund
Tax Collection
Fund
ASSETS
Cash and investments
$
2,787,301
Receivables
Taxes
12,248,141
Total Assets
15,035,442
LIABILITIES
Due to other taxing units
15,035,442
Total Liabilities
15,035,442
TOTAL NET POSITION
$
-
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-27
119
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN FIDUCIARY NET POSITION
FIDUCIARY FUND
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Custodial Fund
Tax Collection
Fund
ADDITIONS
Property taxes collected for other governments
$
10,005,180
Total Additions
10,005,180
DEDUCTIONS
Property taxes distributed to other governments
10,005,180
Total Deductions
10,005,180
Change in Fiduciary Net Position
-
NET POSITION - Beginning of Year
-
NET POSITION - END OF YEAR
$
-
See accompanying notes to financial statements. 
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-28
120
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
INDEX TO NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE
Page
I
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
24
A.
Reporting Entity
24
B.
Government-Wide and Fund Financial Statements
25
C.
Measurement Focus, Basis of Accounting, and Financial Statement
Presentation
28
D.
Assets, Deferred Outflows of Resources, Liabilities, Deferred Inflows of
Resources, and Net Position or Equity
30
1.
Deposits and Investments
30
2.
Receivables
32
3.
Inventories and Prepaid Items
33
4.
Restricted Assets
33
5.
Capital Assets
34
6.
Deferred Outflows of Resources
35
7.
Compensated Absences
35
8.
Long-Term Obligations/Conduit Debt 
35
9.
Deferred Inflows of Resources
36
10.  Equity Classifications
36
11.  Pension
38
12.  Basis for Existing Rates
38
II
Stewardship, Compliance, and Accountability
39
A.
Excess Expenditures and Other Financing Uses Over Appropriations
39
B.
Deficit Balances
40
C.
Limitations on the City's Tax Levy
40
III
Detailed Notes on All Funds
41
A.
Deposits and Investments
41
B.
Receivables
44
C.
Restricted Assets
45
D.
Capital Assets
46
E.
Interfund Receivables/Payables, Advances and Transfers
52
F.
Long-Term Obligations
55
G.
Closure and Postclosure Care Cost
61
H.
Net Position/Fund Balances
61
I.
Component Unit
63
IV
Other Information
64
A.
Employees' Retirement System
64
B.
Risk Management
70
C.
Commitments and Contingencies
70
D.
Joint Ventures
72
E.
Other Postemployment Benefits
72
F.
Subsequent Events
75
G.
Related Organizations
76
H.
Tax Abatement
76
I.
Effect of New Accounting Standards on Current-Period Financial Statements
77
J.
Nonexchange Financial Guarantee
77
K.
Tax Incremental Financing Districts
77
23
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE I - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accounting policies of the City of River Falls, Wisconsin conform to accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America as applicable to governmental units. The accepted standard-
setting body for establishing governmental accounting and financial reporting principles is the
Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB).
A. REPORTING ENTITY
This report includes all of the funds of the city. The reporting entity for the city consists of the primary
government and its component unit. Component units are legally separate organizations for which the
primary government is financially accountable or other organizations for which the nature and significance
of their relationship with the primary government are such that their exclusion would cause the reporting
entity's financial statements to be misleading. The primary government is financially accountable if (1) it
appoints a voting majority of the organization's governing body and it is able to impose its will on that
organization, (2) it appoints a voting majority of the organization's governing body and there is a potential
for the organization to provide specific financial benefits to, or impose specific financial burdens on, the
primary government, (3) the organization is fiscally dependent on and there is a potential for the
organization to provide specific financial benefits to, or impose specific financial burdens on, the primary
government. Certain legally separate, tax exempt organizations should also be reported as a component
unit if all of the following criteria are met: (1) the economic resources received or held by the separate
organization are entirely or almost entirely for the direct benefit of the primary government, its component
units, or its constituents; (2) the primary government or its component units, is entitled to, or has the ability
to access, a majority of the economic resources received or held by the separate organization; and (3) the
economic resources received or held by an individual organization that the primary government, or its
component units, is entitled to, or has the ability to otherwise access, are significant to the primary
government.
Component units are reported using one of three methods, discrete presentation, blended, or fiduciary.
Generally, component units should be discretely presented in a separate column in the financial
statements. A component unit should be reported as part of the primary government using the blending
method if it meets any one of the following criteria: (1) the primary government and the component unit
have substantively the same governing body and a financial benefit or burden relationship exists, (2) the
primary government and the component unit have substantively the same governing body and
management of the primary government has operational responsibility for the component unit, (3) the
component unit serves or benefits, exclusively or almost exclusively, the primary government rather than
its citizens, or (4) the total debt of the component unit will be paid entirely or almost entirely from resources
of the primary government.
Discretely Presented Component Unit
Business Improvement District
The government-wide financial statements include the Business Improvement District ("BID") as a
component unit. The BID is a legally separate organization. The board of the BID is appointed by the
mayor of the City of River Falls. Wisconsin Statutes provide for circumstances whereby the city can
impose its will on the BID, and also create a potential financial benefit to or burden on the city. See
Note III.I. As a component unit, the BID's financial statements have been presented as a discrete column
in the financial statements. The information presented is for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019.
The BID does not issue separate financial statements.
24
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-29
121
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE I - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont.)
B. GOVERNMENT-WIDE AND FUND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In January 2017, the GASB issued statement No. 84 - Fiduciary Activities. This statement establishes
criteria for identifying fiduciary activities of all state and local governments for accounting and
financial reporting purposes and how those activities should be reported. This standard was implemented
January 1, 2019.
In March 2018, the GASB issued statement No. 88 - Certain Disclosures Related to Debt, including Direct
Borrowings and Direct Placements. This Statement defines debt for purposes of disclosure in notes to
financial statements and establishes additional financial statement note disclosure requirements related to
debt obligations of governments, including direct borrowings and direct placements. This standard was
implemented January 1, 2019. 
Government-Wide Financial Statements
The statement of net position and statement of activities display information about the reporting
government as a whole. They include all funds of the reporting entity except for fiduciary funds. The
statements distinguish between governmental and business-type activities. Governmental activities
generally are financed through taxes, intergovernmental revenues, and other nonexchange revenues.
Business-type activities are financed in whole or in part by fees charged to external parties for goods or
services. Likewise, the primary government is reported separately from certain legally separate
component units for which the primary government is financially accountable.
The statement of activities demonstrates the degree to which the direct expenses of a given function or
segment are offset by program revenues. Direct expenses are those that are clearly identifiable with a
specific function or segment. The city does not allocate indirect expenses to functions in the statement of
activities. Program revenues include 1) charges to customers or applicants who purchase, use or directly
benefit from goods, services, or privileges provided by a given function or segment, and 2) grants and
contributions that are restricted to meeting the operational or capital requirements of a particular function
or segment. Taxes and other items not included among program revenues are reported as general
revenues. Internally dedicated resources are reported as general revenues rather than as program
revenues.
Fund Financial Statements
Financial statements of the city are organized into funds, each of which is considered to be a separate
accounting entity. Each fund is accounted for by providing a separate set of self-balancing accounts,
which constitute its assets, deferred outflows of resources, liabilities, deferred inflows of resources, net
position/fund balance, revenues, and expenditures/expenses. 
25
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE I - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont.)
B. GOVERNMENT-WIDE AND FUND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont.)
Fund Financial Statements (cont.)
Funds are organized as major funds or nonmajor funds within the governmental and proprietary
statements. An emphasis is placed on major funds within the governmental and proprietary categories. A
fund is considered major if it is the primary operating fund of the city or meets the following criteria:
a. Total assets/deferred outflows of resources, liabilities/deferred inflows of resources, revenues,
or expenditures/expenses of that individual governmental or enterprise fund are at least 10% of
the corresponding total for all funds of that category or type, and 
b. The same element of the individual governmental or enterprise fund that met the 10% test is at
least 5% of the corresponding total for all governmental and enterprise funds combined.
c. In addition, any other governmental or enterprise fund that the city believes is particularly
important to financial statement users may be reported as a major fund.
Separate financial statements are provided for governmental funds, proprietary funds and fiduciary funds,
even though the latter are excluded from the government-wide financial statements. Major individual
governmental funds and major individual enterprise funds are reported as separate columns in the fund
financial statements.
The city reports the following major governmental funds:
General Fund - accounts for the city's primary operating activities. It is used to account for and
report all financial resources except those accounted for and reported in another fund.
TIF #10 Special Revenue Fund - used to account for and report grants and local revenues
legally restricted or committed to supporting expenditures for the TIF #10.
General Capital Projects Fund - accounts for and reports proceeds from long-term borrowing
and other resources to be used for capital improvement projects.
The city reports the following major enterprise funds:
Electric Utility - accounts for operations of the electric system
Water Utility - accounts for operations of the water system
Sewer Utility - accounts for operations of the sewer system
26
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-30
122
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE I - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont.)
B. GOVERNMENT-WIDE AND FUND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont.)
Fund Financial Statements (cont.)
The city reports the following nonmajor governmental and enterprise funds:
Special Revenue Funds - used to account for and report the proceeds of specific revenue
sources that are restricted or committed to expenditures for specified purposes (other than debt
service or capital projects).
Parking Improvements
Tax Increment District #13
Refuse/Solid Waste
Tax Increment District #14
Shared Ride Taxi
Library
Environmental Fee
Commercial Revolving Loan Fund
Park Acquisition Fund
Park Impact Fees
Tax Increment District #5
Library Impact Fees
Tax Increment District #6
Fire Impact Fees
Tax Increment District #8
Housing Reserve
Tax Increment District #9
Library Trust Fund
Tax Increment District #11
Tourism and Economic Development
Tax Increment District #12
Debt Service Funds - used to account for and report financial resources that are restricted,
committed, or assigned to expenditure for the payment of general long-term debt principal,
interest, and related costs.
Notes
Bonds
Capital Projects Fund - used to account for and report financial resources that are restricted,
committed, or assigned to expenditure for capital outlays, including the acquisition or
construction of capital facilities and other capital assets.
Capital Equipment
Enterprise Funds - used to account for and report any activity for which a fee is charged to
external uses for goods or services, and must be used for activities which meet certain debt or
cost recovery criteria.
Stormwater
Ambulance
27
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE I - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont.)
B. GOVERNMENT-WIDE AND FUND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (cont.)
Fund Financial Statements (cont.)
In addition, the city reports the following fund types:
Internal Service Funds - used to account for and report the financing of goods or services
provided by one department or agency to other departments or agencies of the city, or to other
governmental units, on a cost-reimbursement basis.
City Hall
Motor Pool
Technology
Maintenance
Custodial Fund - used to account for and report assets controlled by the city and the assets are
for the benefit of individuals, private organizations, and/or other governmental units.
Tax Collection Fund
C. MEASUREMENT FOCUS, BASIS OF ACCOUNTING, AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION
Government-Wide Financial Statements
The government-wide statement of net position and statement of activities are reported using the
economic resources measurement focus and the accrual basis of accounting. Under the accrual basis of
accounting, revenues are recognized when earned and expenses are recorded when the liability is
incurred or economic asset used. Revenues, expenses, gains, losses, assets, and liabilities resulting from
exchange and exchange-like transactions are recognized when the exchange takes place. Property taxes
are recognized as revenues in the year for which they are levied. Taxes receivable for the following year
are recorded as receivables and deferred inflows. Grants and similar items are recognized as revenue as
soon as all eligibility requirements imposed by the provider are met. Special assessments are recorded as
revenue when earned. Unbilled receivables are recorded as revenues when services are provided.
As a general rule, the effect of interfund activity has been eliminated from the government-wide financial
statements. Exceptions to this general rule are charges between the city's electric, water and sewer
utilities and various other functions of the government. Elimination of these charges would distort the
direct costs and program revenues reported for the various functions concerned.
28
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-31
123
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE I - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont.)
C. MEASUREMENT FOCUS, BASIS OF ACCOUNTING, AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION (cont.)
Fund Financial Statements
Governmental fund financial statements are reported using the current financial resources measurement
focus and the modified accrual basis of accounting. Revenues are recorded when they are both
measurable and available. Available means collectible within the current period or soon enough thereafter
to be used to pay liabilities of the current period. For this purpose, the city considers revenues to be
available if they are collected within 60 days of the end of the current fiscal period. Expenditures are
recorded when the related fund liability is incurred, except for unmatured interest on long-term debt,
claims, judgments, compensated absences, and pension expenditures, which are recorded as a fund
liability when expected to be paid with expendable available financial resources.
Property taxes are recorded in the year levied as receivables and deferred inflows. They are recognized
as revenues in the succeeding year when services financed by the levy are being provided.
Intergovernmental aids and grants are recognized as revenues in the period the city is entitled the
resources and the amounts are available. Amounts owed to the city which are not available are recorded
as receivables and unavailable revenues. Amounts received before eligibility requirements (excluding time
requirements) are met are recorded as liabilities. Amounts received in advance of meeting time
requirements are recorded as deferred inflows.
Special assessments are recorded as revenues when they become measurable and available as current
assets. Annual installments due in future years are reflected as receivables and unavailable revenues.
Revenues susceptible to accrual include property taxes, miscellaneous taxes, public charges for services,
special assessments and interest. Other general revenues such as fines and forfeitures, inspection fees,
recreation fees, and miscellaneous revenues are recognized when received in cash or when measurable
and available under the criteria described above. 
Proprietary and fiduciary fund financial statements are reported using the economic resources
measurement focus and the accrual basis of accounting, as described previously in this note. 
The proprietary funds distinguish operating revenues and expenses from nonoperating items. Operating
revenues and expenses generally result from providing services and producing and delivering goods in
connection with a proprietary fund's principal ongoing operations. The principal operating revenues of the
Electric Utility, Water Utility, Sewer Utility, Stormwater Utility, and Ambulance fund are charges to
customers for sales and services. Special assessments are recorded as receivables and contribution
revenue when levied. Operating expenses for proprietary funds include the cost of sales and services,
administrative expenses, and depreciation on capital assets. All revenues and expenses not meeting this
definition are reported as nonoperating revenues and expenses.
29
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE I - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont.)
C. MEASUREMENT FOCUS, BASIS OF ACCOUNTING, AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION (cont.)
All Financial Statements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets,
deferred outflows of resources, liabilities, and deferred inflows of resources and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenditures/expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
D. ASSETS, DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES, LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES,
AND NET POSITION OR EQUITY
1. Deposits and Investments
For purposes of the statement of cash flows, the city considers all highly liquid investments with an initial
maturity of three months or less when acquired to be cash equivalents.
Investment of city funds is restricted by Wisconsin state statutes. Available investments are limited to:
a. 
Time deposits in any credit union, bank, savings bank or trust company. 
b. 
Bonds or securities of any county, city, drainage district, technical college district, village, town, or
school district of the state. Also, bonds issued by a local exposition district, a local professional
baseball park district, a local professional football stadium district, a local cultural arts district, the
University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority, or the Wisconsin Aerospace Authority.
c. 
Bonds or securities issued or guaranteed by the federal government.
d. 
The local government investment pool.
e. 
Any security maturing in seven years or less and having the highest or second highest rating
category of a nationally recognized rating agency.
f. 
Securities of an open-end management investment company or investment trust, subject to
various conditions and investment options.
g. 
Repurchase agreements with public depositories, with certain conditions.
Investment of most trust funds including cemetery perpetual care funds, is regulated by Chapter 881 of
the Wisconsin Statutes. Investment of library trust funds is regulated by Chapter 112. Those sections give
broad authority to use such funds to acquire various kinds of investments including stocks, bonds and
debentures.
The city has adopted an investment policy. That policy contains the following guidelines for allowable
investments.
30
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-32
124
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE I - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont.)
D. ASSETS, DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES, LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES,
AND NET POSITION OR EQUITY (cont.)
1. Deposits and Investments (cont.)
Custodial Credit Risk
The city requires that all funds on deposit be secured by some form of collateral. The amount of the
collateral will not be less than 110% of the fair market value of the net amount of public funds secured.
Credit Risk
The city will only invest in the type of investments allowable by state statutes as listed above. In addition,
any investments in commercial paper and variable rate demand notes must have a rating of A-1 or A-2 by
Standard & Poor's Corporation or P-1 or P-2 by Moody's Investors' Service at the time of purchase.
Investments in fixed income securities must have a minimum long-term debt rating of AA by Standard &
Poor's Corporation or Aa by Moody's Investors' Services.
Concentration of Credit Risk
The city will diversify investments according to the following limits:
1.
No financial institutions shall hold more than 15% of the city's investment portfolio excluding short-
term construction bond proceeds.
2.
Monies deposited at an individual financial institution shall not exceed 10% of the capital stock and
surplus of that institution.
3.
Commercial paper shall not exceed 10% of the city's portfolio.
4.
Deposits in the Wisconsin State Investment Pool shall not exceed 50% of the investment portfolio,
with the exception of annual property tax collections, which are generally invested for 30 days or less.
5.
Financing for city projects, for a term not more than five years, shall not exceed 15% of the portfolio.
6.
Total holdings of any one issuer may not exceed 10% of the market value of the portfolio at the time
of purchase, with the exception of U.S. government issues fully guaranteed as to both principal and
interest by the U.S. government or agencies thereof.
Interest Rate Risk
Maturities of individual securities must be in compliance with Section 66.0603(2) of Wisconsin State
Statutes. Per this Section, time deposits may not exceed three years, and debt that is not guaranteed as
to principal and interest by the Federal Government or its Agencies, or a Wisconsin municipality must
have a maturity not more than seven years.
31
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE I - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont.)
D. ASSETS, DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES, LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES,
AND NET POSITION OR EQUITY (cont.)
1. Deposits and Investments (cont.)
Investments are stated at fair value, which is the amount at which an investment could be exchanged in a
current transaction between willing parties. Fair values are based on methods and inputs as outlined in
Note III.A. No investments are reported at amortized cost. Adjustments necessary to record investments
at fair value are recorded in the operating statement as increases or decreases in investment income.
Investment income on commingled investments of municipal accounting funds is allocated based on
average balances. The difference between the bank statement balance and carrying value is due to
outstanding checks and/or deposits in transit.
The Wisconsin Local Government Investment Pool (LGIP) is part of the State Investment Fund (SIF), and
is managed by the State of Wisconsin Investment Board. The SIF is not registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, but operates under the statutory authority of Wisconsin Chapter 25. The SIF
reports the fair value of its underlying assets annually. Participants in the LGIP have the right to withdraw
their funds in total on one day's notice. At December 31, 2019, the fair value of the city 's share of the
LGIP's assets was substantially equal to the amount as reported in these statements.
See Note III. A. for further information. 
2. Receivables  
Property taxes are levied in December on the assessed value as of the prior January 1. In addition to
property taxes for the city, taxes are collected for and remitted to the state and county governments as
well as the local school district and technical college district. Taxes for all state and local governmental
units billed in the current year for the succeeding year are reflected as receivables and due to other taxing
units on the accompanying statement of fiduciary net position - fiduciary fund.
Property tax calendar - 2019 tax roll:
Lien date and levy date
December 2019
Tax bills mailed
December 2019
Payment in full, or
January 31, 2020
First installment due
January 31, 2020
Second installment due
July 31, 2020
Personal property taxes in full
January 31, 2020
Tax sale - 2019 delinquent real estate taxes
October 2022
Accounts receivable have been shown net of an allowance for uncollectible accounts. Delinquent real
estate taxes as of July 31 are paid in full by the county, which assumes the collection thereof. No provision
for uncollectible accounts receivable has been made for the electric, water or sewer utilities because they
have the right by law to place substantially all delinquent bills on the tax roll, and other delinquent bills are
generally not significant.  
32
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-33
125
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE I - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont.)
D. ASSETS, DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES, LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES,
AND NET POSITION OR EQUITY (cont.)
2. Receivables (cont.)
During the course of operations, transactions occur between individual funds that may result in amounts
owed between funds. Short-term interfund loans are reported as "due to and from other funds." Long-term
interfund loans (noncurrent portion) are reported as "advances from and to other funds." Interfund
receivables and payables between funds within governmental activities are eliminated in the statement of
net position. Any residual balances outstanding between the governmental activities and business-type
activities are reported in the governmental-wide financial statements as internal balances.
In the governmental fund financial statements, advances to other funds are offset equally by a
nonspendable fund balance account which indicates that they do not constitute expendable available
financial resources and, therefore, are not available for appropriation or by a restricted fund balance
account, if the funds will ultimately be restricted when the advance is repaid.
It is the city's policy to record unavailable revenue for the net amount of the receivable balance. As loans
are repaid, revenue is recognized. When new loans are made from the repayments, expenditures are
recorded. Interest received from loan repayments is recognized as revenue when received in cash. Any
unspent loan repayments at year end are presented as restricted or committed fund balance in the fund
financial statements.
3. Inventories and Prepaid Items  
Governmental fund inventory items are charged to expenditure accounts when purchased. Year-end
inventory was not significant. Proprietary fund inventories are generally used for construction and/or for
operation and maintenance work. They are not for resale. They are valued at cost based on average cost,
and charged to construction and/or operation and maintenance expense when used.
Certain payments to vendors reflect costs applicable to future accounting periods and are recorded as
prepaid items in both government-wide and fund financial statements.
4. Restricted Assets  
Mandatory segregations of assets are presented as restricted assets. Such segregations are required by
bond agreements and other external parties. Current liabilities payable from these restricted assets are so
classified.
33
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE I - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont.)
D. ASSETS, DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES, LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES,
AND NET POSITION OR EQUITY (cont.)
5. Capital Assets  
Government-Wide Statements
Capital assets, which include property, plant and equipment, are reported in the government-wide financial
statements. Capital assets are defined by the government as assets with an initial cost of more than
$5,000 for general capital assets and $100,000 for infrastructure assets, and an estimated useful life in
excess of 1 year. All capital assets are valued at historical cost, or estimated historical cost if actual
amounts are unavailable. Donated capital assets are recorded at their estimated acquisition value at the
date of donation. 
Additions to and replacements of capital assets of business-type activities are recorded at original cost,
which includes material, labor, overhead, and an allowance for the cost of funds used during construction
when significant. For tax-exempt debt, the amount of interest capitalized equals the interest expense
incurred during construction netted against any interest revenue from temporary investment of borrowed
fund proceeds. No interest was capitalized during the current year. The cost of renewals and betterments
relating to retirement units is added to plant accounts. The cost of property replaced, retired or otherwise
disposed of, is deducted from plant accounts and, generally, together with removal costs less salvage, is
charged to accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation and amortization of all exhaustible capital assets is recorded as an allocated expense in the
statement of activities, with accumulated depreciation and amortization reflected in the statement of net
position. Depreciation and amortization is provided over the assets' estimated useful lives using the
straight-line method. The range of estimated useful lives by type of asset is as follows:
Buildings
25-75 Years
Land Improvements
25 Years
Machinery and Equipment
10-40 Years
Infrastructure
50-70 Years
Utility System
4-100 Years
Intangibles
3-20 Years
Fund Financial Statements
In the fund financial statements, capital assets used in governmental fund operations are accounted for as
capital outlay expenditures of the governmental fund upon acquisition. Capital assets used in proprietary
fund operations are accounted for the same way as in the government-wide statements.
34
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-34
126
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE I - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont.)
D. ASSETS, DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES, LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES,
AND NET POSITION OR EQUITY (cont.)
6.  Deferred Outflows of Resources 
A deferred outflow of resources represents a consumption of net position/fund balance that applies to a
future period and will not be recognized as an outflow of resources (expense/expenditure) until that future
time.
A deferred charge on refunding arises from the advance refunding of debt. The difference between the
cost of the securities placed in trust for future payments of the refunded debt and the net carrying value of
that debt is deferred and amortized as a component of interest expense over the shorter of the term of the
refunding issue or the original term of the refunded debt. The unamortized amount is reported as a
deferred outflow of resources in the government-wide and proprietary fund financial statements.
7. Compensated Absences  
Under terms of employment, employees are granted paid time off in varying amounts. Only benefits
considered to be vested are disclosed in these statements. 
All vested paid time off is accrued when incurred in the government-wide  and proprietary fund financial
statements. A liability for these amounts is reported in governmental funds only if they have matured, for
example, as a result of employee resignations and retirements, and are payable with expendable
resources. 
Payments for paid time off will be made at rates in effect when the benefits are used. Accumulated paid
time off liabilities at December 31, 2019, are determined on the basis of current salary rates and include
salary related payments.
8.
Long-Term Obligations/Conduit Debt    
All long-term obligations to be repaid from governmental and business-type resources are reported as
liabilities in the government-wide statements. The long-term obligations consist primarily of notes and
bonds payable, accrued compensated absences, other postemployment benefits, and net pension liability.
Long-term obligations for governmental funds are not reported as liabilities in the fund financial
statements. The face value of debts (plus any premiums) are reported as other financing sources and
payments of principal and interest are reported as expenditures. The accounting in proprietary funds is the
same as it is in the government-wide statements.
For the government-wide statements and proprietary fund statements, bond premiums and discounts are
amortized over the life of the issue using the straight-line method. The balance at year end is shown as an
increase or decrease in the liability section of the statement of net position.
35
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE I - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont.)
D. ASSETS, DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES, LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES,
AND NET POSITION OR EQUITY (cont.)
8.  Long-Term Obligations/Conduit Debt (cont.)
The city has approved the issuance of industrial revenue bonds (IRB) for the benefit of private business
enterprises. IRB's are secured by mortgages or revenue agreements on the associated projects, and do
not constitute indebtedness of the city. Accordingly, the bonds are not reported as liabilities in the
accompanying financial statements.The total amount of IRB's outstanding at the end of the year is
approximately $120,000, made up of one issue.
9.
Deferred Inflows of Resources  
A deferred inflow of resources represents an acquisition of net position/fund balance that applies to a
future period and therefore will not be recognized as an inflow of resources (revenue) until that future time.
10.  Equity Classifications  
Government-Wide Statements
Equity is classified as net position and displayed in three components:
a. Net investment in capital assets - Consists of capital assets including restricted capital assets,
net of accumulated depreciation and reduced by the outstanding balances (excluding unspent
debt proceeds) of any bonds, mortgages, notes, or other borrowings that are attributable to the
acquisition, construction, or improvement of those assets.
b. Restricted net position - Consists of net position with constraints placed on their use either by 1)
external groups such as creditors, grantors, contributors, or laws or regulations of other
governments or, 2) law through constitutional provisions or enabling legislation.
c. Unrestricted net position - All other net positions that do not meet the definitions of "restricted" or
"net investment in capital assets."
The net position section includes an adjustment for capital assets owned by the business-type activities
column, but financed by the debt of the governmental activities column. The amount is a reduction of "net
investment in capital assets", and an increase in "unrestricted" net position, shown only in the total
column. A reconciliation of this adjustment is as follows:
Governmental
Activities
Business-type
Activities
Adjustment
Total
Net investment in capital assets
$ 43,720,649
$ 53,731,208
$
(1,710,724) $ 95,741,133
Unrestricted
3,073,967
9,476,654
1,710,724
14,261,345
When both restricted and unrestricted resources are available for use, it is the city's policy to use
restricted resources first, then unrestricted resources as they are needed.
36
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-35
127
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE I - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont.)
D. ASSETS, DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES, LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES,
AND NET POSITION OR EQUITY (cont.)
10.  Equity Classifications (cont.)
Fund Statements
Governmental fund balances are displayed as follows:
a.  Nonspendable - Includes fund balance amounts that cannot be spent either because they are
not in spendable form or because legal or contractual requirements require them to be
maintained intact.
b.  Restricted - Consists of fund balances with constraints placed on their use either by 1) external
groups such as creditors, grantors, contributors, or laws or regulations of other governments or
2) law through constitutional provisions or enabling legislation.
c.  Committed - Includes fund balance amounts that are constrained for specific purposes that are
internally imposed by the government through formal action of the highest level of decision
making authority. Fund balance amounts are committed through a formal action (resolution) of
the City Council. This formal action must occur prior to the end of the reporting period, but the
amount of the commitment, which will be subject to the constraints, may be determined in the
subsequent period. Any changes to the constraints imposed require the same formal action of
the City Council that originally created the commitment.
d.  Assigned - Includes spendable fund balance amounts that are intended to be used for specific
purposes that do not meet the criteria to be classified as restricted or committed. The Council
may take official action to assign amounts. Assignments may take place after the end of the
reporting period.
e.  Unassigned - Includes residual positive fund balance within the general fund which has not been
classified within the other above mentioned categories. Unassigned fund balance may also
include negative balances for any governmental fund if expenditures exceed amounts restricted,
committed, or assigned for those purposes.
Proprietary fund equity is classified the same as in the government-wide statements.
The city considers restricted amounts to be spent first when both restricted and unrestricted fund balance
is available unless there are legal documents/contracts that prohibit from doing this, such as in grant
agreements requiring dollar for dollar spending. Additionally, the city would first use committed, then
assigned, and lastly, unassigned amounts of unrestricted fund balance when expenditures are made.
See Note III. H. for further information.
37
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE I - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont.)
D. ASSETS, DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES, LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES,
AND NET POSITION OR EQUITY (cont.)
11.  Pension  
For purposes of measuring the net pension asset (liability), deferred outflows of resources and deferred
inflows of resources related to pensions, and pension expense, information about the fiduciary net position
of the Wisconsin Retirement System (WRS) and additions to/deductions from WRS' fiduciary net position
have been determined on the same basis as they are reported by WRS. For this purpose, benefit
payments (including refunds of employee contributions) are recognized when due and payable in
accordance with the benefit terms. Investments are reported at fair value.
12.  Basis for Existing Rates  
Current electric rates were approved by the PSCW on April 10, 2008.
Current water rates were approved by the PSCW effective June 27, 2016.  
Current sewer rates were approved by the City Council on March 12, 2012.
Current stormwater rates were effective April 1, 2007.
Current ambulance rates were effective March 1, 2018.
38
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-36
128
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE II - STEWARDSHIP, COMPLIANCE, AND ACCOUNTABILITY  
A. EXCESS EXPENDITURES AND OTHER FINANCING USES OVER APPROPRIATIONS  
Fund
Budgeted
Expenditures
Actual
Expenditures
Excess
Expenditures Over
Budget
General Fund
$
10,800,516
$
10,979,585
$
179,069
TIF #10
805,862
838,768
32,906
General Capital Projects
5,678,139
5,853,355
175,216
Shared Ride Taxi
242,355
249,085
6,730
Refuse/Solid Waste
753,082
770,515
17,433
Commercial Revolving Loan
1,089
51,089
50,000
Fire Impact Fees
27,964
472,576
444,612
Library Trust
5,167
37,934
32,767
Tourism and Economic
Development
149,804
153,541
3,737
TIF #5
551,379
572,155
20,776
TIF #8
69,245
69,371
126
TIF #9
146,659
154,179
7,520
TIF #11
11,310
156,749
145,439
TIF #12
3,546
5,563
2,017
TIF #13
-
5,852
5,852
TIF #14
-
26,199
26,199
Debt Service Bonds
550,186
554,643
4,457
Debt Service Notes
693,314
839,765
146,451
Capital Equipment
464,936
477,054
12,118
The city controls expenditures at the department level. Some individual departments experienced
expenditures which exceeded appropriations. The detail of those items can be found in the city's year-end
budget to actual report.
39
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE II - STEWARDSHIP, COMPLIANCE, AND ACCOUNTABILITY (cont.)
B. DEFICIT BALANCES  
Generally accepted accounting principles require disclosure of individual funds that have deficit balances
at year end.
As of December 31, 2019, the following individual funds held a deficit balance:
Fund
Amount
Reason
TIF #10
$
3,379,416
Insufficient tax increment generated
General Capital Projects
751,653
Costs exceeded revenues due to
capital expenditures
TIF #5
168,000
Insufficient tax increment generated
TIF #6
913,353
Insufficient tax increment generated
TIF #8
117,431
Insufficient tax increment generated
TIF #9
381,709
Insufficient tax increment generated
TIF #11
168,683
Insufficient tax increment generated
TIF #12
628,680
Insufficient tax increment generated
TIF #13
14,352
Insufficient tax increment generated
Tourism and Economic
Development
649,271
Costs exceeded revenues due to
purchase of property
Commercial Revolving Loan Fund
6,404
Costs exceeded revenues due to the
long-term nature of loan repayments
Library Impact Fees
52,148
Costs exceeded revenues due to
purchase of property
Debt Service Bonds
35,588
Insufficient revenues to cover
expenditures
Motor Pool
2,442
Insufficient revenues to cover
expenses
TIF district deficits are anticipated to be funded with future incremental taxes levied over the life of the
districts, which is 27 years for the districts created before October 1, 1995, and 23 years for districts
created thereafter through September 30, 2004. Beginning October 1, 2004, the life of new districts varies
by type of district (20-27 years) and may be extended in some cases. Remaining fund deficits are
anticipated to be funded with future contributions, general tax revenues, or repayment of advanced funds.
C. LIMITATIONS ON THE CITY'S TAX LEVY  
Wisconsin law limits the city's future tax levies. Generally the city is limited to its prior tax levy dollar
amount (excluding TIF Districts), increased by the greater of the percentage change in the city's equalized
value due to new construction or zero percent. Changes in debt service from one year to the next are
generally exempt from this limit with certain exceptions. The city is required to reduce its allowable levy by
the estimated amount of fee revenue it collects for certain services, if those services were funded in 2013
by the property tax levy. Levies can be increased above the allowable limits if the amount is approved by
referendum.
40
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-37
129
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS  
A. DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS
The city's deposits and investments at year end were comprised of the following:
Carrying
Value
Bank and
Investment
Balances
Associated Risks
Deposits
$
6,415,201
$
6,504,414
Custodial credit
LGIP
18,880,499
18,880,499
Credit
US treasuries
1,148,788
1,148,788
Custodial credit, interest
rate
Corporate bonds
683,329
683,329
Custodial credit, credit,
interest rate,
concentration of credit
Asset-backed securities
50,858
50,858
Custodial credit, credit,
interest rate,
concentration of credit
Mortgage-backed securities
40,669
40,669
Custodial credit, credit,
interest rate,
concentration of credit
Petty cash
763
-
N/A
Total Deposits and Investments
$ 27,220,107
$ 27,308,557
Reconciliation to financial statements
Per statement of net position
Unrestricted cash and investments
$ 21,200,849
Restricted cash and investments
3,231,957
Per statement of fiduciary net position -
fiduciary fund
Tax Collection Fund
2,787,301
Total Deposits and Investments
$ 27,220,107
Deposits in each local and area bank are insured by the FDIC in the amount of $250,000 for time and
savings accounts (including NOW accounts) and $250,000 for demand deposit accounts (interest-bearing
and noninterest-bearing). In addition, if deposits are held in an institution outside of the state in which the
government is located, insured amounts are further limited to a total of $250,000 for the combined amount
of all deposit accounts.
Bank accounts are also insured by the State Deposit Guarantee Fund in the amount of $400,000.
However, due to the nature of this fund, recovery of material principal losses may not be significant to
individual municipalities. This coverage has been considered in computing custodial credit risk.
The Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), created by the Securities Investor Protection Act of
1970, is an independent government-sponsored corporation (not an agency of the U.S. government).
41
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
A. DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS (cont.)
SIPC membership provides account protection up to a maximum of $500,000 per customer, of which
$100,000 may be in cash.
Deposits in investments at Security Financial Bank are collateralized by $11,000,000 of Federal Home
Loan Bank letters of credit.
The city categorizes its fair value measurements within the fair value hierarchy established by generally
accepted accounting principles. The hierarchy is based on the valuation inputs used to measure the fair
value of the asset. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets; Level 2 inputs
are significant other observable inputs; Level 3 inputs are significant unobservable inputs.
The valuation methods for recurring fair value measurements are as follows:

Quoted market prices

Matrix modeled pricing
December 31, 2019
Investment Type
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
US treasuries
$
-
$
1,148,788
$
-
$
1,148,788
Corporate bonds
-
683,329
-
683,329
Asset-backed securities
-
50,858
-
50,858
Mortgage-backed securities
-
40,669
-
40,669
Total
$
-
$
1,923,644
$
-
$
1,923,644
Custodial Credit Risk 
Deposits
Custodial credit risk is the risk that in the event of a financial institution failure, the city's deposits may not
be returned to the city.
The city does not have any deposits exposed to custodial credit risk.
Investments
For an investment, custodial credit risk is the risk that, in the event of the failure of the counterparty, the
city will not be able to recover the value of its investments or collateral securities that are in the possession
of an outside party.
The city does not have any investments exposed to custodial credit risk. 
42
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-38
130
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
A. DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS (cont.)
Credit Risk 
Credit risk is the risk that an issuer or other counterparty to an investment will not fulfill its obligations.
As of December 31, 2019, the city's investments were rated as follows:
Investment Type
Standard & Poors
AAA/AA+/
Corporate bonds
AA/AA-/A+
Asset-backed securities
AAA/AA+
Mortgage-backed securities
AA+
The city also held investments in the following external pools which are not rated:
Local Government Investment Pool
Concentration of Credit Risk 
Concentration of credit risk is the risk of loss attributed to the magnitude of a government's investment in a
single issuer.
None of the city's investments with concentration of credit risk as an associated risk comprised more than
5% of its total investment portfolio at year-end.
Interest Rate Risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates will adversely affect the value of an investment.
As of December 31, 2019, the city's investments were as follows:
Maturity (In Years)
Investment Type
Fair Value
Less than One
Year
One - Five
US treasuries
$
1,148,788
$
444,632
$
704,156
Corporate bonds
683,329
410,484
272,845
Asset-backed securities
50,858
50,858
-
Mortgage-backed securities
40,669
6,759
33,910
Totals
$
1,923,644
$
912,733
$
1,010,911
43
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
A. DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS (cont.)
See Note I.D.1. for further information on deposit and investment policies.
B. RECEIVABLES  
All of the receivables on the balance sheet are expected to be collected within one year except for special
assessments of $55,347 in the general fund, loans of $161,615 in the general capital projects fund, loans
of $3,188 in the electric utility, other receivables of $74,348 and $57,453, in the water utility and sewer
utility, respectively, special assessments of $16,724 in the general capital projects fund, and loans of
$219,957 in nonmajor governmental funds.
Revenues of the ambulance fund are reported net of contractual cost reductions related to Medicare and
Medicaid and amount to $1,456,492 for the current period.
Allowances for uncollectible receivables as of year-end are as follows:
General Fund
    Allowance for various uncollectible receivables
$
18,807
Nonmajor Enterprise Funds
    Allowance for uncollectible ambulance
receivables
$
1,409,188
Governmental funds report unavailable or unearned revenue in connection with receivables for revenues
that are not considered to be available to liquidate liabilities of the current period. Property taxes levied for
the subsequent year are not earned and cannot be used to liquidate liabilities of the current period.
Governmental funds also defer revenue recognition in connection with resources that have been received,
but not yet earned. At the end of the current fiscal year, the various components of unavailable revenue
and unearned revenue reported in the governmental funds were as follows:
Unearned
Unavailable
Property taxes receivable
$
8,255,067
$
4,129
Special assessments receivable
8,087
67,426
Grants receivable
-
8,412
Loans receivable
-
469,748
Developer deposits
3,155,016
-
Miscellaneous
-
127,571
Total Unearned/Unavailable Revenue for
Governmental Funds
$ 11,418,170
$
677,286
Unearned revenue included in liabilities
$
3,155,016
Unearned revenue included in deferred inflows
8,263,154
Total Unearned Revenue for Governmental Funds
$ 11,418,170
44
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-39
131
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
C. RESTRICTED ASSETS  
The following represent the balances of the restricted assets:
Long-Term Debt Accounts
Redemption
-
Used to segregate resources accumulated for debt service payments over the
next twelve months.
Reserve
-
Used to report resources set aside to make up potential future deficiencies in
the redemption account.
Equipment Replacement Account
The sewer utility established an equipment replacement account to be used for significant mechanical
equipment replacement as required by the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources.
Impact Fee Account
The city has received impact fees which must be spent in accordance with the local ordinance and state
statutes. Any unspent funds must be refunded to the current property owner.
Following is a list of restricted assets at December 31, 2019: 
Restricted Assets
Bond redemption account
$
840,977
Bond reserve account
967,160
Impact fee account
433,195
Replacement account
990,625
Total Restricted Assets
$
3,231,957
45
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
D. CAPITAL ASSETS  
Capital asset activity for the year ended December 31, 2019, was as follows:
Beginning
Balance
Additions
Deletions
Ending
Balance
Governmental Activities
Capital assets not being
depreciated/amortized
Land
$ 13,200,645
$
232,000
$
66,353
$ 13,366,292
Construction in progress
806,519
4,839,451
-
5,645,970
Total Capital Assets Not Being
Depreciated/Amortized
14,007,164
5,071,451
66,353
19,012,262
Capital assets being
depreciated/amortized
Land improvements
521,469
-
-
521,469
Buildings
19,019,173
839,674
3,878,953
15,979,894
Machinery and equipment
7,361,332
570,352
232,093
7,699,591
Infrastructure
37,558,944
488,092
6,534
38,040,502
Intangibles
342,638
-
-
342,638
Total Capital Assets Being
Depreciated/Amortized
64,803,556
1,898,118
4,117,580
62,584,094
Total Capital Assets
78,810,720
6,969,569
4,183,933
81,596,356
Less:  Accumulated
depreciation/amortization for
Land improvements
(311,147)
(23,693)
-
(334,840)
Buildings
(6,570,042)
(496,215)
315,369
(6,750,888)
Machinery and equipment
(3,750,355)
(430,507)
188,534
(3,992,328)
Infrastructure
(9,097,076)
(548,075)
-
(9,645,151)
Intangibles
(172,817)
(33,135)
-
(205,952)
Total Accumulated
Depreciation/Amortization
(19,901,437)
(1,531,625)
503,903
(20,929,159)
Net Capital Assets Being
Depreciated/Amortized
44,902,119
366,493
3,613,677
41,654,935
Total Governmental
Activities Capital Assets,
Net of Accumulated
Depreciation/
Amortization
$ 58,909,283
$ 5,437,944
$ 3,680,030
$ 60,667,197
46
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-40
132
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
D. CAPITAL ASSETS (cont.)
Depreciation/amortization expense was charged to functions as follows:
Governmental Activities
General government
$
176,153
Public safety
187,773
Public works
774,619
Leisure activities
271,916
Conservation and development
121,164
Total Governmental Activities Depreciation/Amortization Expense
$
1,531,625
Business-type Activities
Beginning
Balance
Additions
Deletions
Ending Balance
Electric
Capital assets not being
depreciated
Land and land rights
$
122,960
$
-
$
-
$
122,960
Construction in progress
334,279
1,643,743
1,107,867
870,155
Total Capital Assets Not
Being Depreciated
457,239
1,643,743
1,107,867
993,115
Capital assets being depreciated
Hydraulic production
932,179
-
-
932,179
Other production
1,260,829
-
-
1,260,829
Transmission
2,747,155
-
-
2,775,381
Distribution
23,359,336
1,119,353
352,460
24,098,003
General
2,244,148
460,697
76,584
2,628,261
Total Capital Assets Being
Depreciated
30,543,647
1,580,050
429,044
31,694,653
Total Capital Assets
31,000,886
3,223,793
1,536,911
32,687,768
Less:  Accumulated
depreciation for
Hydraulic production
(682,527)
(20,448)
-
(702,975)
Other production
(739,357)
(25,128)
-
(764,485)
Transmission
(812,973)
(87,766)
-
(900,739)
Distribution
(9,945,940)
(796,602)
390,325
(10,352,217)
General
(1,443,278)
(124,974)
76,584
(1,491,668)
Total Accumulated
Depreciation
(13,624,075)
(1,054,918)
466,909
(14,212,084)
Net Capital Assets
Being Depreciated
16,919,572
525,132
(37,865)
17,482,569
Net Electric Capital
Assets
$
17,376,811
$
2,168,875
$
1,070,002
$
18,475,684
47
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
D. CAPITAL ASSETS (cont.)
Business-type Activities (cont.)
Beginning
Balance
Additions
Deletions
Ending Balance
Water
Capital assets not being
depreciated
Land and land rights
$
23,120
$
-
$
-
$
23,120
Construction in progress
177,186
121,924
133,210
165,900
Total Capital Assets Not
Being Depreciated
200,306
121,924
133,210
189,020
Capital assets being depreciated
Source of supply
881,451
-
-
881,451
Pumping
2,097,693
-
-
2,097,693
Water treatment
49,671
-
-
49,671
Transmission and distribution
17,117,221
380,768
18,257
17,479,732
General
565,916
122,056
144,958
543,014
Total Capital Assets Being
Depreciated
20,711,952
502,824
163,215
21,051,561
Total Capital Assets
20,912,258
624,748
296,425
21,240,581
Less: Accumulated depreciation
for
Source of supply
(169,594)
(4,266)
-
(173,860)
Pumping
(659,581)
(60,424)
-
(720,005)
Water treatment
(19,587)
(2,694)
-
(22,281)
Transmission and
distribution
(5,083,736)
(377,631)
16,987
(5,444,380)
General
(410,289)
(51,293)
142,208
(319,374)
Total Accumulated
Depreciation
(6,342,787)
(496,308)
159,195
(6,679,900)
Net Capital Assets
Being Depreciated
14,369,165
6,516
4,020
14,371,661
Net Water Capital
Assets
$
14,569,471
$
128,440
$
137,230
$
14,560,681
48
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-41
133
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
D. CAPITAL ASSETS (cont.)
Business-type Activities (cont.)
Beginning
Balance
Additions
Deletions
Ending Balance
Sewer
Capital assets not being
depreciated
Land and land rights
$
117,622
$
-
$
-
$
117,622
Construction in progress
439,840
527,067
94,972
871,935
Total Capital Assets Not
Being Depreciated
557,462
527,067
94,972
989,557
Capital assets being depreciated
Collection system
17,647,234
56,688
-
17,703,922
Collection system pumping
1,028,479
-
-
1,028,479
Treatment and disposal
11,148,136
-
4,874
11,143,262
General
3,082,299
143,968
16,906
3,209,361
Intangibles
113,314
-
6,742
106,572
Total Capital Assets Being
Depreciated
33,019,462
200,656
28,522
33,191,596
Total Capital Assets
33,576,924
727,723
123,494
34,181,153
Less:  Accumulated
depreciation for
Collection system
(3,465,527)
(189,292)
-
(3,654,819)
Collection system pumping
(787,331)
(25,539)
-
(812,870)
Treatment and disposal
(4,865,271)
(345,459)
3,549
(5,207,181)
General
(1,095,096)
(135,743)
14,155
(1,216,684)
Total Accumulated
Depreciation
(10,213,225)
(696,033)
17,704
(10,891,554)
Net Capital Assets
Being Depreciated
22,806,237
(495,377)
10,818
22,300,042
Net Sewer Capital
Assets
$
23,363,699
$
31,690
$
105,790
$
23,289,599
49
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
D. CAPITAL ASSETS (cont.)
Business-type Activities (cont.)
Beginning
Balance
Additions
Deletions
Ending Balance
Stormwater
Capital assets not being
depreciated
Construction in progress
$
64,350
$
-
$
-
$
64,350
Total Capital Assets Not
Being Depreciated
64,350
-
-
64,350
Capital assets being depreciated
Machinery and equipment
143,440
-
-
143,440
Collection system
8,502,707
130,243
-
8,632,950
Total Capital Assets Being
Depreciated
8,646,147
130,243
-
8,776,390
Total Capital Assets
8,710,497
130,243
-
8,840,740
Less:  Accumulated
depreciation for
Machinery and equipment
(93,253)
(15,455)
-
(108,708)
Collection system
(2,200,369)
(158,012)
-
(2,358,381)
Total Accumulated
depreciation
(2,293,622)
(173,467)
-
(2,467,089)
Net Capital Assets
Being Depreciated
6,352,525
(43,224)
-
6,309,301
Net Stormwater
Capital Assets
$
6,416,875
$
(43,224) $
-
$
6,373,651
50
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-42
134
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
D. CAPITAL ASSETS (cont.)
Business-type Activities (cont.)
Beginning
Balance
Additions
Deletions
Ending Balance
Ambulance
Capital assets not being
depreciated
Land
$
101,298
$
-
$
-
$
101,298
Total Capital Assets Not
Being Depreciated
101,298
-
-
101,298
Capital assets being depreciated
Building improvements
21,393
-
-
21,393
Buildings
601,408
-
-
601,408
Machinery and equipment
1,365,246
-
56,281
1,308,965
Intangibles
35,232
-
4,335
30,897
Total Capital Assets Being
Depreciated
2,023,279
-
60,616
1,962,663
Total Capital Assets
2,124,577
-
60,616
2,063,961
Less:  Accumulated
depreciation for
Building improvements
(21,393)
-
-
(21,393)
Buildings
(439,359)
(21,833)
-
(461,192)
Machinery and equipment
(880,789)
(106,134)
33,218
(953,705)
Total Accumulated
Depreciation
(1,341,541)
(127,967)
33,218
(1,436,290)
Net Capital Assets
Being Depreciated
681,738
(127,967)
27,398
526,373
Net Ambulance
Capital Assets
$
783,036
$
(127,967) $
27,398
$
627,671
Business-type Capital
Assets, Net of
Accumulated
Depreciation
$
62,509,892
$
2,157,814
$
1,340,420
$
63,327,286
51
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
D. CAPITAL ASSETS (cont.)
Depreciation/amortization expense was charged to functions as follows:
Business-type Activities
Electric
$
1,054,918
Water
451,514
Sewer
740,827
Stormwater
173,467
Ambulance
127,967
Total Business-type Activities Depreciation Expense
$
2,548,693
Depreciation expense is different from additions because of joint metering, salvage, and cost of removal.
E. INTERFUND RECEIVABLES/PAYABLES, ADVANCES AND TRANSFERS   
Interfund Receivables/Payables
The following is a schedule of interfund receivables and payables including any overdrafts on pooled cash
and investment accounts:
Receivable Fund
Payable Fund
Amount
General Fund
TIF District #5
$
172,018
General Fund
TIF District #13
14,352
General Fund
Commercial Revolving Loan
6,404
General Fund
Library Impact Fees
107,324
General Fund
Debt Service Bonds
52,999
General Fund
Ambulance
135,616
General Fund
Motor Pool
17,299
Total - Fund Financial Statements
506,012
Less:  Fund eliminations
(353,097)
Add: Interfund receivables created with internal service fund
eliminations
1,387,995
Total Internal Balances - Government-Wide Statement of
Net Position
$
1,540,910
All amounts are due within one year.
All balances resulted from the time lag between the dates that: (1) interfund goods and services are
provided or reimbursable expenditures occur, (2) transactions are recorded in the accounting system, and
(3) payments between funds are made.
52
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-43
135
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
E. INTERFUND RECEIVABLES/PAYABLES, ADVANCES AND TRANSFERS (cont.)
Advances
The general fund, general capital projects fund and environmental fee fund are advancing funds to TIF
Districts No. 6, No. 8, No. 9, No. 10, No. 11 and No. 12. The amount advanced is determined by the
deficiency of revenues and other financing sources over expenditures and other financing uses since each
District's inception.  No repayment schedule has been established for the TIF District advances.
In 2011, the environmental fee fund advanced $1,000,000 to the tourism and economic development fund.
No repayment schedule has been established.
The following is a schedule of interfund advances:
Receivable Fund
Payable Fund
Amount
Amount Not
Due Within One
Year
General Fund
TIF District #6
$
917,045
$
917,045
General Fund
TIF District #8
118,157
118,157
General Fund
TIF District #9
381,709
381,709
General Fund
TIF District #10
2,422,711
2,422,711
General Fund
TIF District #11
164,611
164,611
General Fund
TIF District #12
629,726
629,726
General Capital Projects
TIF District #10
500,000
500,000
Environmental Fee
TIF District #10
500,000
500,000
Environmental Fee
Tourism and Economic
Development
1,000,000
1,000,000
Total Fund Financial Statements
6,633,959
Less:  Fund eliminations
(6,633,959)
Total - Interfund Advances - Government-Wide Statement
of Net Position
$
-
In addition to the interfund advances scheduled above, the General Fund paid a portion of its general
property tax levy to TIF Districts No. 5, 9, and 10. The TIF Districts are contingently liable for repayment of
these amounts to the General Fund, if the districts have sufficient resources. Net property tax levies
advanced as of December, 31 2019 are as follows:
TIF District No. 5
$
1,549,267
TIF District No. 9
64,866
TIF District No. 10
337,423
53
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
E. INTERFUND RECEIVABLES/PAYABLES, ADVANCES AND TRANSFERS (cont.)
Transfers
The following is a schedule of interfund transfers:
Fund Transferred To
Fund Transferred From
Amount
Principal Purpose
General
TIF #10
$
29,799
Budgeted allocations
General
General Capital Projects
26,668
Budgeted allocations
General
Nonmajor governmental
funds
492,111
Subsidy refund & budgeted
allocations
General 
Electric utility
767,446
Property tax equivalent &
budgeted allocations
General
Water utility
398,829
Property tax equivalent &
budgeted allocations
General
Sewer utility
124,667
Budgeted allocations
General
Nonmajor enterprise funds
120,717
Budgeted allocations
General
Internal service funds
59,455
Budgeted allocations
TIF #10
General
92,157
Budgeted allocations
General Capital Projects
Nonmajor governmental
funds
151,000
Desanctis Park and
community signage costs
Nonmajor governmental
funds
General
731,088
Budgeted allocations, fire truck
prepayment, M Stokke
memorial donation & cover
deficit balances
Nonmajor governmental
funds
Nonmajor governmental
funds
40,452
Budgeted allocations
Nonmajor governmental
funds
General Capital Projects
200,000
Budgeted allocations
Nonmajor governmental
funds
Internal service funds
151,445
Budgeted allocations
Internal service funds
General
768,173
Budgeted allocations
Internal service funds
Nonmajor governmental
funds
72,015
Budgeted allocations
Internal service funds
Electric utility
208,897
Budgeted allocations
Internal service funds
Water utility
48,488
Budgeted allocations
Internal service funds
Sewer utility
64,640
Budgeted allocations
Internal service funds
Nonmajor enterprise funds
58,705
Budgeted allocations
Internal service funds
Internal service funds
85,056
Budgeted allocations
Total - Fund Financial Statements
4,691,808
Less: Fund and government-wide eliminations
(2,899,419)
Total Transfers - Government-Wide Statement
of Activities
$
1,792,389
54
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-44
136
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
E. INTERFUND RECEIVABLES/PAYABLES, ADVANCES AND TRANSFERS (cont.)
Transfers (cont.)
Generally, transfers are used to (1) move revenues from the fund that collects them to the fund that the
budget requires to expend them, (2) move receipts restricted to debt service from the funds collecting the
receipts to the debt service fund, and (3) use unrestricted revenues collected in the general fund to
finance various programs accounted for in other funds in accordance with budgetary authorizations.
F. LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS  
Long-term obligations activity for the year ended December 31, 2019, was as follows:
Beginning
Balance
Increases
Decreases
Ending
Balance
Amounts Due
Within One
Year
Governmental Activities
Bonds and Notes Payable
General obligation debt
$
14,550,000
$
-
$
1,295,000
$
13,255,000
$
1,325,000
General obligation bonds or
notes from direct borrowings
and direct placements
3,669,870
2,638,000
347,302
5,960,568
2,018,994
(Discounts)/Premiums
479,011
-
37,596
441,415
-
Sub-totals
18,698,881
2,638,000
1,679,898
19,656,983
3,343,994
Other Liabilities
Vested compensated
absences
352,535
37,195
164,359
225,371
225,371
Other postemployment
benefits
558,053
106,816
-
664,869
-
Net pension liability
-
2,916,789
1,553,897
1,362,892
-
Landfill postclosure care cost
138,170
3,178
14,471
126,877
14,471
Total Other Liabilities
1,048,758
3,063,978
1,732,727
2,380,009
239,842
Total Governmental
Activities Long-Term
Liabilities
$
19,747,639
$
5,701,978
$
3,412,625
$
22,036,992
$
3,583,836
Business-type Activities
Bonds and Notes Payable
General obligation debt
$
1,725,000
$
-
$
440,000
$
1,285,000
$
305,000
Revenue bonds
8,440,000
-
495,000
7,945,000
520,000
Revenue bonds from direct
borrowings and direct
placements
1,386,621
-
182,359
1,204,262
187,367
Other long-term debt from
direct borrowings and direct
placements
7,593
-
2,445
5,148
2,494
(Discounts)/Premiums
239,274
-
32,431
206,843
-
Sub-totals
11,798,488
-
1,152,235
10,646,253
1,014,861
55
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
F. LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS (cont.)
Beginning
Balance
Increases
Decreases
Ending
Balance
Amounts Due
Within One
Year
Business-type Activities (cont.)
Other Liabilities
Vested compensated
absences
$
109,229
$
11,282
$
6,787
$
113,724
$
113,724
Other postemployment
benefits
120,021
10,390
-
130,411
-
Net pension liability
-
1,420,600
755,356
665,244
-
Total Other Liabilities
229,250
1,442,272
762,143
909,379
113,724
Total Business-type
Activities Long-Term
Liabilities
$
12,027,738
$
1,442,272
$
1,914,378
$
11,555,632
$
1,128,585
In accordance with Wisconsin Statutes, total general obligation indebtedness of the city may not
exceed 5% of the equalized value of taxable property within the city's jurisdiction. The debt limit as of
December 31, 2019, was $54,217,895. Total general obligation debt outstanding at year end was
$20,500,568. 
General Obligation Debt 
All general obligation notes and bonds payable are backed by the full faith and credit of the city. Notes and
bonds in the governmental funds will be retired by future property tax levies or tax increments
accumulated by the special revenue, debt service, and capital projects funds. Business-type activities debt
is payable by revenues from user fees of those funds or, if the revenues are not sufficient, by future tax
levies.
Governmental Activities
General Obligation Debt
Date of
Issue
Final
Maturity
Interest
Rates
Original
Indebtedness
Balance
December 31,
2019
Refunding Bonds
03/2012
03/2028
2.4%
$
4,560,000
$
1,865,000
Corporate Purpose
Bonds
08/2014
06/2034
3.00-4.00%
5,425,000
4,430,000
State Trust Fund Loan *
07/2015
03/2034
3.75%
1,600,000
1,334,958
State Trust Fund Loan *
10/2015
03/2025
3.25%
269,800
190,935
Promissory Note *
10/2015
10/2025
2.94%
575,000
346,790
Refunding Bonds
04/2016
03/2029
2.0-3.0%
4,060,000
3,680,000
State Trust Fund Loan *
01/2017
03/2031
3.50%
1,100,000
979,198
State Trust Fund Loan *
01/2017
03/2021
2.50%
112,500
57,887
Park Bonds
07/2018
04/2033
3.0-3.2%
3,460,000
3,280,000
Promissory Note *
12/2018
12/2023
3.33%
516,000
412,800
Promissory Note *
01/2019
07/2020
2.84%
1,500,000
1,500,000
Promissory Note *
11/2019
11/2029
2.54%
620,000
620,000
Promissory Note *
11/2019
11/2024
2.09%
518,000
518,000
Total Governmental Activities - General Obligation Debt
$ 19,215,568
56
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-45
137
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
F. LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS (cont.)
General Obligation Debt (cont.)
Business-type Activities
General Obligation Debt
Date of
Issue
Final
Maturity
Interest
Rates
Original
Indebtedness
Balance
December 31,
2019
Refunding Bonds
08/2012
05/2023
1.0-2.5%
$
3,165,000
$
1,285,000
Total Business-type Activities - General Obligation Debt
$
1,285,000
* - considered direct placement or direct borrowing
Debt service requirements to maturity are as follows:
Governmental Activities
Business-type Activities
General Obligation Debt
General Obligation Debt
Years
Principal
Interest
Principal
Interest
2020
$
1,325,000
$
392,715
$
305,000
$
23,413
2021
1,355,000
351,503
315,000
16,450
2022
1,090,000
312,530
325,000
10,050
2023
925,000
275,959
340,000
3,400
2024
950,000
245,910
-
-
2025-2029
5,020,000
813,675
-
-
2030-2034
2,590,000
234,974
-
-
Totals
$
13,255,000
$
2,627,266
$
1,285,000
$
53,313
Governmental Activities
Bonds and notes from Direct
Borrowings and Direct
Placements
Years
Principal
Interest
2020
$
2,018,994
$
173,070
2021
525,801
124,921
2022
502,556
109,240
2023
508,829
94,076
2024
411,946
79,737
2025-2029
1,269,107
253,642
2030-2034
723,335
71,174
Totals
$
5,960,568
$
905,860
57
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
F. LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS (cont.)
Revenue Debt
Business-type activities revenue bonds are payable only from revenues derived from the operation of the
electric, water, and sewer utilities. 
The electric utility has pledged future electric utility revenues, net of specified operating expenses, to
repay revenue bonds issued in 2018. The bonds are payable solely from electric utility revenues and are
payable through 2028. Annual principal and interest payments on the bonds are expected to require
15.11% of net revenues. The total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the bonds is $2,661,725.
Principal and interest paid for the current year and total customer net revenues were $297,715 and
$1,957,266, respectively.
The water utility has pledged future water utility revenues, net of specified operating expenses, to repay
revenue bonds issued in 2011. The bonds are payable solely from water utility revenues and are payable
through 2031. Annual principal and interest payments on the bonds are expected to require 18.20% of net
revenues. The total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the bonds is $1,878,960. Principal and
interest paid for the current year and total customer net revenues were $158,640 and $860,135,
respectively.
The sewer utility has pledged future sewer utility revenues, net of specified operating expenses, to repay
revenue bonds issued in 2005 and 2016. The bonds are payable solely from sewer utility revenues and
are payable through 2036. Annual principal and interest payments on the bonds are expected to require
25.38% of net revenues. The total principal and interest remaining to be paid on the bonds is $6,526,406.
Principal and interest paid for the current year and total customer net revenues were $527,282 and
$1,512,646, respectively.
Revenue debt payable at December 31, 2019, consists of the following:
Business-type Activities Revenue Debt
Date of
Issue
Final
Maturity
Interest
Rates
Original
Indebtedness
Balance
December 31,
2019
Electric Utility
Revenue Bonds
07/2018
04/2028
3.0-4.0%
$
2,500,000
$
2,305,000
Total Electric Utility
2,305,000
Water Utility
Revenue Bonds
07/2011
11/2031
2.0-4.4%
2,125,000
1,485,000
Total Water Utility
1,485,000
58
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-46
138
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
F. LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS (cont.)
Revenue Debt (cont.)
Business-type Activities Revenue Debt (cont.)
Date of
Issue
Final
Maturity
Interest
Rates
Original
Indebtedness
Balance
December 31,
2019
Sewer Utility
Revenue Bonds *
11/2005
05/2025
2.746%
$
3,317,130
$
1,204,262
Revenue Bonds
04/2016
05/2036
2.0-3.0%
4,510,000
4,155,000
Total Sewer Utility
5,359,262
Total Business-type Activities - Revenue Debt
$
9,149,262
* - considered direct placement or direct borrowing
Debt service requirements to maturity are as follows:
Business-type Activities
Revenue Debt
Years
Principal
Interest
2020
$
520,000
$
236,740
2021
540,000
221,715
2022
555,000
204,805
2023
570,000
187,200
2024
590,000
168,795
2025-2029
2,930,000
573,035
2030-2034
1,645,000
205,795
2035-2036
595,000
17,925
Totals
$
7,945,000
$
1,816,010
59
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
F. LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS (cont.)
Revenue Debt (cont.)
Business-type Activities Revenue Debt (cont.)
Business-type Activities
Revenue Debt  from Direct
Borrowings and Direct
Placements
Years
Principal
Interest
2020
$
187,367
$
30,496
2021
192,512
25,281
2022
197,798
19,922
2023
203,230
14,416
2024
208,811
8,758
2025
214,544
2,946
Totals
$
1,204,262
$
101,819
Other Debt Information  
Estimated payments of compensated absences, other postemployment benefits, net pension liability and
landfill postclosure care costs are not included in the debt service requirement schedules. The liabilities
attributable to governmental activities will be liquidated primarily by the general fund. 
The city's outstanding State Trust Fund Loans from direct borrowings related to governmental activities of
$2,562,978 contain clauses that any delinquent payments are subject to a penalty of one percent per
month and shall be deducted from any state payments that are due to the city.
The city’s outstanding notes from direct borrowings related to governmental activities of $3,397,590
contain provisions that in an event of default, outstanding amounts become immediately due and payable. 
The city's outstanding debt from direct borrowings or direct placement related to the business-type
activities of $1,204,262 contain provisions that (1) any delinquent payments can be deducted from any
state payments that are due to the city or a special charge may be added to the taxes apportioned to and
levied upon the county in which the city is located and (2) in an event of default, outstanding amounts
become immediately due and payable or the interest rate may be increased to the market interest rate and
(3) any delinquent payments may be intercepted from the revenue of the utility system.
60
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-47
139
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
G. CLOSURE AND POSTCLOSURE CARE COST
State and federal laws and regulations require the city to place a final cover on its landfill site when it stops
accepting waste and to perform certain maintenance and monitoring functions at the site for until notified
by the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources that such maintenance and monitoring is no longer
required years after closure. Although closure and postclosure care costs will be paid only near or after the
date that the landfill stops accepting waste, the city reports a portion of these closure and postclosure care
costs as an operating expense in each period based on landfill capacity used as of each balance sheet
date. The $126,877 reported as landfill closure and postclosure care liability at December 31, 2019,
represents the estimated amount of future postclosure costs. These amounts are based on what it would
cost to perform all postclosure care in 2019. Actual cost may be higher due to inflation, changes in
technology, or changes in regulations.
H. NET POSITION/FUND BALANCES
Net position reported on the government wide statement of net position at December 31, 2019, includes
the following:
Governmental Activities
Net Investment in Capital Assets
Land
$
13,366,292
Construction in progress
5,645,970
Other capital assets, net of accumulated depreciation
41,654,935
Less:  Long-term debt outstanding (excluding unspent capital related debt
proceeds)
(19,215,568)
Plus:  Noncapital debt proceeds
2,431,962
Less:  Unamortized debt premium
(441,415)
Plus: Unamortized deferred charge on refunding
278,473
Total Net Investment in Capital Assets
$
43,720,649
61
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
H. NET POSITION/FUND BALANCES (cont.)
Governmental Funds
Governmental fund balances reported on the fund financial statements at December 31, 2019, include the
following:
General Fund
Tax Increment
District #10
General
Capital
Projects Fund
Nonmajor
Funds
Totals
Fund Balances
  Nonspendable:
Inventories and prepayments
$
45,425
$
-
$
139
$
632,719
$
678,283
Advances to other funds
4,633,959
-
500,000
-
5,133,959
Sub-total
4,679,384
-
500,139
632,719
5,812,242
 Restricted for:
Debt service
-
-
-
14,861
14,861
Parking improvements
-
-
-
66,155
66,155
Refuse/solid waste
-
-
-
78,893
78,893
Shared ride taxi
-
-
-
22,870
22,870
Environmental fee
-
-
-
3,104,372
3,104,372
Future TIF expenditures
-
-
-
415,694
415,694
Library
-
-
-
111,624
111,624
Park impact fee projects
-
-
-
251,527
251,527
Fire impact fee projects
-
-
-
822
822
Housing reserve
-
-
-
745,668
745,668
Library trust
-
-
-
156,144
156,144
Sub-total
-
-
-
4,968,630
4,968,630
  Committed to:
Park acquisition
-
-
-
1,125
1,125
Equipment
-
-
-
205,448
205,448
Sub-total
-
-
-
206,573
206,573
  Unassigned (deficit):
5,942,279
(3,379,416)
(1,251,792)
(3,135,631)
(1,824,560)
Total Fund Balances
(Deficit)
$ 10,621,663
$ (3,379,416)
$
(751,653)
$
2,672,291
$
9,162,885
62
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-48
140
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
H. NET POSITION/FUND BALANCES (cont.)
Business-type Activities
Net Investment in Capital Assets
Land
$
365,000
Construction in progress
1,972,340
Other capital assets, net of accumulated depreciation
60,989,946
Less:  Long-term debt outstanding
(10,434,262)
Plus:  Unamortized loss on refunding
77,867
Less: Unamortized debt premium
(206,843)
Plus: Unspent debt proceeds
967,160
Total Net Investment in Capital Assets
$
53,731,208
Of the total December 31, 2019 unrestricted net position of $4,670,234 in the electric utility, $132,764 has
been committed by the city for hydroelectric operations.
I.
COMPONENT UNIT
BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
This report contains the Business Improvement District (BID), which is included as a component unit. The
BID was established in 1988 pursuant to the law of the State of Wisconsin, to transact business and to
have powers as defined therein. An independent board is responsible for all activities of the BID. The
board members of the BID are separate from those of the city, and employees are not included on or
entitled to benefit programs of the city. Separate accounting records are maintained and debts incurred by
the BID are not obligations of the city.
In addition to the basic financial statements and the preceding notes to financial statements which apply,
the following additional disclosures are considered necessary for a fair presentation.
a.  Basis of Accounting/Measurement Focus
The BID follows the modified accrual basis of accounting and the flow of financial resources
measurement focus.
b.  Deposits and Investments
Carrying
Value
Statement
Balances
Associated Risks
Deposits
$
18,400
$
26,987
Custodial credit risk
63
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE III - DETAILED NOTES ON ALL FUNDS (cont.)
I.
COMPONENT UNIT (cont.)
BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT (cont.)
b.  Deposits and Investments (cont.)
Custodial Credit Risk
Deposits
Custodial credit risk is the risk that in the event of a financial institution failure, the BID's deposits may not
be returned to the BID.
The BID does not have any deposits exposed to custodial credit risk.
NOTE IV - OTHER INFORMATION 
A. EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM
Plan description. The WRS is a cost-sharing multiple-employer defined benefit pension plan. WRS
benefits and other plan provisions are established by Chapter 40 of the Wisconsin Statutes. Benefit terms
may only be modified by the legislature. The retirement system is administered by the Wisconsin
Department of Employee Trust Funds (ETF). The system provides coverage to all eligible State of
Wisconsin, local government and other public employees. All employees, initially employed by a
participating WRS employer on or after July 1, 2011, and expected to work at least 1,200 hours a year
(880 hours teachers and school district educational support employees) and expected to be employed for
at least one year from employee’s date of hire are eligible to participate in the WRS. 
ETF issues a standalone Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR), which can be found at
http://etf.wi.gov/publications/cafr.htm.
Vesting. For employees beginning participation on or after January 1, 1990, and no longer actively
employed on or after April 24, 1998, creditable service in each of five years is required for eligibility for a
retirement annuity. Participants employed prior to 1990 and on or after April 24, 1998, and prior to July 1,
2011, are immediately vested. Participants who initially became WRS eligible on or after July 1, 2011,
must have five years of creditable service to be vested. 
Benefits provided. Employees who retire at or after age 65 (54 for protective occupation employees, 62
for elected officials and executive service retirement participants, if hired on or before 12/31/2016) are
entitled to retirement benefit based on a formula factor, their average earnings, and creditable service.
64
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-49
141
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE IV - OTHER INFORMATION (cont.)
A. EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM (cont.)
Final average earnings is the average of the participant's three highest annual earnings periods.
Creditable service includes current service and prior service for which a participant received earnings and
made contributions as required. Creditable service also includes creditable military service. The retirement
benefit will be calculated as a money purchase benefit based on the employee's contributions plus
matching employer's contributions, with interest, if that benefit is higher than the formula benefit.
Vested participants may retire at age 55 (50 for protective occupations) and receive an actuarially reduced
benefit. Participants terminating covered employment prior to eligibility for an annuity may either receive
employee-required contributions plus interest as a separation benefit or leave contributions on deposit and
defer application until eligible to receive a retirement benefit. 
The WRS also provides death and disability benefits for employees.
Post-retirement adjustments. The Employee Trust Funds Board may periodically adjust annuity
payments from the retirement system based on annual investment performance in accordance with
s. 40.27, Wis. Stat. An increase (or decrease) in annuity payments may result when investment gains
(losses), together with other actuarial experience factors, create a surplus (shortfall) in the reserves, as
determined by the system’s consulting actuary. Annuity increases are not based on cost of living or other
similar factors. For Core annuities, decreases may be applied only to previously granted increases. By
law, Core annuities cannot be reduced to an amount below the original, guaranteed amount (the “floor”)
set at retirement. The Core and Variable annuity adjustments granted during recent years are as follows:
Year
Core Fund
Adjustment
Variable Fund
Adjustment
2009
(2.1)%
(42.0)%
2010
(1.3)
22.0
2011
(1.2)
11.0
2012
(7.0)
(7.0)
2013
(9.6)
9.0
2014
4.7
25.0
2015
2.9
2.0
2016
0.5
(5.0)
2017
2.0
4.0
2018
2.4
17.0
65
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE IV - OTHER INFORMATION (cont.)
A. EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM (cont.)
Contributions. Required contributions are determined by an annual actuarial valuation in accordance with
Chapter 40 of the Wisconsin Statutes. The employee required contribution is one-half of the actuarially
determined contribution rate for General category employees and Elected Officials. Starting on January 1,
2016, the Executives and Elected Officials category merged into the General Employee category.
Required contributions for protective employees are the same rate as general employees. Employers are
required to contribute the remainder of the actuarially determined contribution rate. The employer may not
pay the employee required contribution unless provided for by an existing collective bargaining agreement.
During the reporting period, the WRS recognized $614,274 in contributions from the city.
Contribution rates for the plan year reported as of December 31, 2019 are:
Employee Category
Employee
Employer
General (Executives & Elected Officials) 
6.7%
6.7%
Protective with Social Security
6.7%
10.7%
Protective without Social Security
6.7%
14.9%
Pension Liability, Pension Expense, Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of
Resources Related to Pensions
At December 31, 2019, the city reported an liability of $2,028,136 for its proportionate share of the net
pension liability. The net pension liability was measured as of December 31, 2018, and the total pension
liability used to calculate the net pension liability was determined by an actuarial valuation as of
December 31, 2017 rolled forward to December 31, 2018. No material changes in assumptions or benefit
terms occurred between the actuarial valuation date and the measurement date. The city’s proportion of
the net pension liability was based on the city’s share of contributions to the pension plan relative to the
contributions of all participating employers. At December 31, 2018, the city’s proportion was
0.05700718%, which was an increase of 0.00343644% from its proportion measured as of December 31,
2017.
For the year ended December 31, 2019, the city recognized pension expense of $1,358,798.
66
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-50
142
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE IV - OTHER INFORMATION (cont.)
A. EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM (cont.)
At December 31, 2019, the city reported deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources
related to pensions from the following sources:
Deferred
Outflows of
Resources
Deferred
Inflows of
Resources
Differences between expected and actual experience
$
1,579,611
$
2,792,184
Changes in assumptions
341,869
-
Net differences between projected and actual earnings on
pension plan investments
2,961,955
-
Changes in proportion and differences between employer
contributions and proportionate share of contributions
2,010
39,715
Employer contributions subsequent to the measurement date
630,482
-
Totals
$
5,515,927
$
2,831,899
$630,482 reported as deferred outflows related to pension resulting from the WRS Employer’s
contributions subsequent to the measurement date will be recognized as a reduction of the net pension
liability (asset) in the year ended December 31, 2019. Other amounts reported as deferred outflows of
resources and deferred inflows of resourcesrelated to pension will be recognized in pension expense as
follows:
Year Ended 
December 31:
Deferred Outflows
of Resources and
Deferred Inflows of
Resources (net)
2020
$
745,130
2021
177,559
2022
323,619
2023
807,238
67
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE IV - OTHER INFORMATION (cont.)
A. EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM (cont.)
Actuarial assumptions. The total pension liability in the December 31, 2018 actuarial valuation was
determined using the following actuarial assumptions, applied to all periods included in the measurement:
Actuarial Valuation Date:
December 31, 2017
Measurement Date of Net Pension Liability (Asset):
December 31, 2018
Actuarial Cost Method:
Entry Age Normal
Asset Valuation Method:
Fair Value
Long-Term Expected Rate of Return:
7.0%
Discount Rate:
7.0%
Salary Increases:
    Inflation
    Seniority/Merit
3.0%
0.1% - 5.6%
Mortality:
Wisconsin 2018 Mortality Table
Post-retirement Adjustments*:
1.9%
* No post-retirement adjustment is guaranteed. Actual adjustments are based on recognized investment
return, actuarial experience and other factors. 1.9% is the assumed annual adjustment based on the
investment return assumption and the post-retirement discount rate. 
Actuarial assumptions are based upon an experience study conducted in 2018 that covered a three-year
period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2017. Based on this experience study, actuarial
assumptions used to measure the Total Pension Liability changed from prior year, including the discount
rate, long-term expected rate of return, post-retirement adjustment, wage inflation rate, mortality and
separation rates. The Total Pension Liability for December 31, 2018 is based upon a roll-forward of the
liability calculated from the December 31, 2017 actuarial valuation.
68
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-51
143
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE IV - OTHER INFORMATION (cont.)
A. EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM (cont.)
Long-term expected return on plan assets. The long-term expected rate of return on pension plan
investments was determined using a building-block method in which best-estimate ranges of expected
future real rates of return (expected returns, net of pension plan investment expense and inflation) are
developed for each major asset class. These ranges are combined to produce the long-term expected
rate of return by weighting the expected future real rates of return by the target asset allocation
percentage and by adding expected inflation. The target allocation and best estimates of arithmetic real
rates of return for each major asset class are summarized in the following table:
Core Fund Asset Class
Current Asset
Allocation %
Long-Term
Expected
Nominal Rate
of Return %
Long-Term
Expected
Real Rate of
Return %
Global Equities
   49%
   8.1%
   5.5%
Fixed Income
24.5
4.0
1.5
Inflation Sensitive Assets
15.5
3.8
1.3
Real Estate
9
6.5
3.9
Private Equity/Debt
8
9.4
6.7
Multi-Asset
4
6.7
4.1
Total Core Fund
110
7.3
4.7
Variable Fund Asset Class
U.S Equities
70
7.6
5.0
International Equities
30
8.5
5.9
Total Variable Fund
100
8.0
5.4
New England Pension Consultants Long Term US CPI (Inflation) Forecast: 2.5%
Asset Allocations are managed within established ranges, target percentages may differ from actual monthly
allocations
Single discount rate.  A single discount rate of 7.00% was used to measure the total pension liability.
This single discount rate was based on the expected rate of return on pension plan investments of 7.00%
and a long term bond rate of 3.71%. Because of the unique structure of WRS, the 7.00% expected rate of
return implies that a dividend of approximately 1.9% will always be paid. For purposes of the single
discount rate, it was assumed that the dividend would always be paid. The projection of cash flows used to
determine this single discount rate assumed that plan member contributions will be made at the current
contribution rate and that employer contributions will be made at rates equal to the difference between
actuarially determined contribution rates and the member rate. Based on these assumptions, the pension
plan’s fiduciary net position was projected to be available to make all projected future benefit payments
(including expected dividends) of current plan members. Therefore, the long-term expected rate of return
on pension plan investments was applied to all periods of projected benefit payments to determine the
total pension liability.
69
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE IV - OTHER INFORMATION (cont.)
A. EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM (cont.)
Sensitivity of the city’s proportionate share of the net pension liability (asset) to changes in the
discount rate. The following presents the city’s proportionate share of the net pension liability (asset)
calculated using the discount rate of 7.00 percent, as well as what the city’s proportionate share of the net
pension liability (asset) would be if it were calculated using a discount rate that is 1-percentage-point lower
(6.00 percent) or 1-percentage-point higher (8.00 percent) than the current rate: 
1% Decrease to
Discount Rate
(6.00%)
Current Discount
Rate (7.00%)
1% Increase to
Discount Rate
(8.00%)
City’s proportionate share of the net
pension liability (asset)
$8,060,027
$2,028,136
$(2,457,042)
Pension plan fiduciary net position. Detailed information about the pension plan’s fiduciary net position
is available in separately issued financial statements available at http://etf.wi.gov/publications/cafr.htm.
At December 31, 2019, the city reported a payable to the pension plan which represents contractually
required contributions outstanding as of the end of the year.
B. RISK MANAGEMENT  
The city is exposed to various risks of loss related to torts; theft of, damage to, or destruction of assets;
errors and omissions; workers compensation; and health care of its employees. All of these risks are
covered through the purchase of commercial insurance, with minimal deductibles. Settled claims have not
exceeded the commercial coverage in any of the past three years. There were no significant reductions in
coverage compared to the prior year.
C. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  
Claims and judgments are recorded as liabilities if all the conditions of Governmental Accounting
Standards Board pronouncements are met. The liability and expenditure for claims and judgments are
only reported in governmental funds if it has matured. Claims and judgments are recorded in the
government-wide statements and proprietary funds as expenses when the related liabilities are incurred.
From time to time, the city is party to various pending claims and legal proceedings. Although the outcome
of such matters cannot be forecasted with certainty, it is the opinion of management and the city attorney
that the likelihood is remote that any such claims or proceedings will have a material adverse effect on the
city's financial position or results of operations. 
The city has active construction projects as of December 31, 2019. Work that has been completed on
these projects but not yet paid for (including contract retainages) is reflected as accounts payable and
expenditures.
The city has open contracts of approximately $3,277,000 at December 31, 2019 relating to various
projects.
70
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-52
144
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE IV - OTHER INFORMATION (cont.)
C. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (cont.)
Long-Term Contracts - WPPI Energy
The electric utility is one of 51 WPPI Energy member municipalities located throughout the State of
Wisconsin. On December 1, 1989, each initial WPPI Energy member commenced purchasing electric
service from WPPI Energy under a long-term Power Supply Contract for Participating Members (long-term
contract). Under the long-term contract, WPPI Energy is obligated to provide and sell, and each member
is obligated to take and pay for, the electric power and energy required for the operation of each member's
electric utility. 
The long-term contract requires all WPPI Energy members to pay for power and energy requirements
supplied or made available by WPPI Energy at rates sufficient to cover WPPI Energy's revenue
requirement including power supply costs, administrative expenses and debt service. WPPI Energy's
subsequent year's operating budget and rates are approved annually by its Board of Directors, consisting
of representatives from each member. The members have agreed to charge rates to retail customers
sufficient to meet their WPPI Energy obligations. The long-term contract provides that all payments to
WPPI Energy constitute operating expenses of the utility payable from any operating and maintenance
fund established for that system.
Forty-nine members, representing approximately 98% of WPPI Energy's existing load, have long-term
contracts through December 31, 2055. The remaining two members have long-term contracts through
December 31, 2037.
WPPI Energy's outstanding debt service obligation to be paid by its members through their wholesale
power charges through the remainder of the long-term contract was $324 million as of December 31,
2019.
71
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE IV - OTHER INFORMATION (cont.)
D. JOINT VENTURES 
The City of River Falls and other municipalities jointly contract with the West Central Wisconsin Biosolids
Facility Commission (facility) for the treatment, storage, disposal, recycling and/or sale of biosolids
(sludge). Communities provided capital contributions to the facility as follows:
Hudson
41.39%
River Falls
18.59%
New Richmond
8.99%
Prescott
8.93%
Ellsworth
6.69%
Amery
6.35%
Baldwin
4.52%
Spring Valley
2.00%
Somerset
1.31%
Roberts
1.24%
The governing body is made up of citizens from each community. Local representatives are appointed by
the mayor. The governing body has authority to adopt its own budget and control the financial affairs of the
facility. The city believes that the facility will continue to provide services in the future at similar rates.
Debt is being repaid with resources of the sewer utility and is secured by revenues of the utility. The
transactions of the facility are not reflected in these financial statements. Facility financial information as of
December 31, 2019 is available from the facility office.
E. OTHER POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS 
GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE OPEB PLAN
Plan description. The city's other postemployment benefit ("OPEB") plan provides group health
insurance coverage for all active employees and retirees (or other qualified terminated employees) at
blended premium rates. This results in an OPEB for the retirees, commonly referred to as an implicit rate
subsidy. The city administers its single-employer defined benefit OPEB plan. No assets are accumulated
in a trust that meets the criteria in paragraph 4 of Statement 75.
Benefits provided. The city’s OPEB plan provides healthcare benefits for retirees and their
dependents. The benefit terms are established through personnel policy guidelines and may be
amended by the action of the governing body. Retired plan members are required to pay 100% of
the premium. Administrative costs of the plan are financed by the city.
72
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-53
145
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE IV - OTHER INFORMATION (cont.)
E. OTHER POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS (cont.)
Employees covered by benefit terms. At December 31, 2019, the following employees were covered by
the benefit terms:
Inactive plan members or beneficiaries currently receiving benefit
payments
8
Inactive plan members entitled to but not yet receiving benefit
payments
1
Active plan members
55
64
Plan members must have been hired on or before December 31, 2013. 
TOTAL OPEB LIABILITY
The city's total OPEB liability of $795,280 was measured as of December 31, 2019, and was determined
by an actuarial valuation as of that date.
Actuarial assumptions and other inputs. The total OPEB liability in the December 31, 2019 actuarial
valuation was determined using the following actuarial assumptions and other inputs, applied to all periods
included in the measurement, unless otherwise specified:
Inflation
2.7 percent
Salary increases
3.20 percent, average, including inflation
Healthcare cost trend rates
8.0 percent for 2019, decreasing 0.5 percent per
year to an ultimate rate of 4.5 percent for 2027 and
later years
The discount rate was based on a yield for 20-year tax-exempt general obligation municipal bonds with an
average rating of AA/Aa or higher.
Mortality rates were based on various SOA Pub-2010 Headcount Weighted Mortality Tables, using Scale
MP-2019.
Some actuarial assumptions used in the December 31, 2019 valuation were based on the most recent
WRS tables as of December 31, 2018.
73
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE IV - OTHER INFORMATION (cont.)
E. OTHER POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS (cont.)
CHANGES IN THE TOTAL OPEB LIABILITY
Total OPEB
Liability
Balances at December 31, 2018
$
678,074
Changes for the year:
      Service cost
36,854
      Interest
28,328
      Differences between expected and
actual experience
58,906
      Changes in assumptions or other inputs
44,979
      Benefit payments
(51,861)
          Net changes 
117,206
Balances at December 31, 2019
$
795,280
Changes of assumptions and other inputs reflect a change in the discount rate from 4.11 percent in 2018
to 3.26 percent in 2019.
Sensitivity of the total OPEB liability to changes in the discount rate. The following presents the total
OPEB liability of the city, as well as what the city's total OPEB liability would be if it were calculated using a
discount rate that is 1-percentage-point lower (2.3 percent) or 1-percentage-point higher (4.3 percent) than
the current discount rate:
1% Decrease 
Discount Rate 
1% Increase 
(2.3%)
(3.3%)
(4.3%)
Net OPEB liability 
$
848,394
$
795,280
$
744,728
Sensitivity of the net OPEB liability to changes in the healthcare cost trend rates. The following
presents the net OPEB liability of the city, as well as what the city's net OPEB liability would be if it were
calculated using healthcare cost trend rates that are 1-percentage-point lower ( 7.0 percent decreasing to
3.5 percent) or 1-percentage-point higher (9.0 percent decreasing to 5.5 percent) than the current
healthcare cost trend rates:
1% Decrease
(7.0%
Decreasing to
3.5%)
Healthcare Cost
Trend Rates
(8.0%
Decreasing to
4.5%)
1% Increase
(9.0%
Decreasing to
5.5%)
Net OPEB liability
$
717,903
$
795,280
$
885,692
74
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-54
146
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE IV - OTHER INFORMATION (cont.)
E. OTHER POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS (cont.)
OPEB EXPENSE AND DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES AND DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
  RELATED TO OPEB
For the year ended December 31, 2019, the city recognized OPEB expense of $85,697. At December 31,
2019, the city reported deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources related to OPEB
from the following sources:
Deferred
Outflows of
Resources
Deferred
Inflows of
Resources
Differences between expected and actual
experience
$
67,494
$
12,352
Changes of assumptions or other inputs
79,778
17,500
      Total
$
147,272
$
29,852
Amounts reported as deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources related to OPEB
will be recognized in OPEB expense as follows:
Year Ended December 31:
2020
$
20,515
2021
20,515
2022
20,515
2023
20,515
2024
20,521
Thereafter
14,839
F. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS  
In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus was reported in Wuhan, Hubei province, China. In the
first several months of 2020, the virus, SARS-CoV-2, and resulting disease, COVID-19, spread to the
United States, including areas impacting the city. Currently, the city's evaluation of these events is
ongoing; however, we anticipate the situation could result in declines in revenues such as state aids and
investment income, a decrease in demand for certain services, an increase in delinquencies or
uncollectible accounts receivable, decline in market value of investments, timing or ability to issue bonds
or obtain financing (as the market has been disrupted), and increased costs related to labor and
insurance.
75
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE IV - OTHER INFORMATION (cont.)
F. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (cont.)
The extent of the impact of COVID-19 on the city's operational and financial performance will depend on
future developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak, and related governmental or other
regulatory actions.
On March 24, 2020 the city authorized the sale of its ambulance services to Allina Health System effective
January 1, 2021. The sale will include the ambulances and larger medical equipment and Allina will rent
the facility currently owned by the city for a minimum of three years. The city will continue to carry old
accounts receivables.
In March 2020, the city authorized the creation of Tax Incremental District No.15 and the use of WHEDA
tax credits to develop workforce housing.
G. RELATED ORGANIZATIONS  
Housing Authority
The city's officials are responsible for appointing the board members of the River Falls Housing Authority,
but the city's accountability for this organization does not extend beyond making the appointments.
H. TAX ABATEMENT
Tax abatements are a reduction in tax revenues that results from an agreement between one or more
governments and an individual or entity in which (a) one or more governments promise to forgo tax
revenues to which they are otherwise entitled and (b) the individual or entity promises to take a specific
action after the agreement has been entered into that contributes to economic development or otherwise
benefits the governments or the citizens of those governments.
The city through its various Tax Incremental Financing Districts (TID) has entered into tax abatement
agreements with several developers in the form of tax incremental financing incentive payments to
stimulate economic development. The abatements are authorized through the TID project plans. The
developers pay property taxes as they become due, and after meeting the criteria established in the
development agreements, are entitled to future incentive payments that directly correlate to the taxes paid.
Aggregate incentive payments for the year ended December 31, 2019 were $198,222. Anticipated future
incentive payments based on such development agreements as of year end totaled $2,905,978. In
addition to the tax abatement arrangements described above, the city has several development
agreements where the city will reimburse the developer for infrastructure costs. 
76
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-55
147
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
NOTE IV - OTHER INFORMATION (cont.)
I.
EFFECT OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ON CURRENT-PERIOD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
The Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) has approved the following:

Statement No. 87, Leases

Statement No. 89, Accounting for Interest Cost Incurred before the End of a Construction
Period

Statement No. 91, Conduit Debt Obligations
When they become effective, application of these standards may restate portions of these financial
statements.
J. NONEXCHANGE FINANCIAL GUARANTEE  
In 2012, the city entered into a loan guarantee agreement with the River Falls Baseball Council, a legally
separate organization. The loan was used for improvements at the baseball park. In the event that the
River Falls Baseball Council would be unable to make the loan payments, all rights, title and interest River
Falls Baseball Council has in the related real property and improvements would be revoked. The city's
exposure at December 31, 2019 is limited to a maximum of $202,585 in principal plus interest. 
K. TAX INCREMENTAL FINANCING DISTRICTS  
The city currently maintains separate special revenue funds to account for its Tax Increment Financing
Districts (TID) created in accordance with Section 66.1105 of the Wisconsin Statutes. The purpose of that
section is to allow a municipality to recover development and improvements costs in a designated area
from the property taxes generated on the increased value of the property after the creation date of the
District. The tax on the increased value is called a tax increment. 
The statutes allow the municipality to collect tax increments until the net project cost has been fully
recovered, or until either 23 or 27 years after the creation date, whichever occurs first. Upon termination,
the incremental tax base created by each TID will become part of the city’s regular tax base. Any surplus
remaining in the TID districts at the time of termination will be allocated among all affected taxing
jurisdictions.
Creation Date
Expenditure
Deadline
Termination
Date
TID No. 5
1994
2016
2024
TID No. 6
2005
2027
2032
TID No. 8
2010
2032
2037
TID No. 9
2011
2033
2038
TID No. 10
2014
2029
2034
TID No. 11
2015
2030
2036
TID No. 12
2016
2031
2037
TID No. 13
2018
2033
2039
TID No. 14
2018
2040
2046
77
DRAFT 04/30/20
R E Q U I R E D   S U P P L E M E N T A R Y   I N F O R M A T I O N
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-56
148
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
SCHEDULE OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES, AND CHANGES
IN FUND BALANCE - BUDGET AND ACTUAL - GENERAL FUND
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Budgeted Amounts
Original
Final
Actual
Variance with
Final Budget
REVENUES
Taxes
$
4,391,375
$
4,391,375
$
4,394,080
$
2,705
Special assessments
-
-
14,883
14,883
Intergovernmental
3,564,577
3,564,577
3,569,452
4,875
Licenses and permits
308,380
308,380
477,097
168,717
Fines, forfeitures and penalties
205,000
205,000
180,685
(24,315)
Public charges for services
206,025
206,025
238,765
32,740
Intergovernmental charges for
services
25,000
25,000
20,498
(4,502)
Investment income
304,000
304,000
367,911
63,911
Miscellaneous revenues
56,937
56,937
146,490
89,553
Total Revenues
9,061,294
9,061,294
9,409,861
348,567
EXPENDITURES
Current
General government
2,085,863
2,085,863
1,850,372
235,491
Public safety
4,060,103
4,060,103
3,747,165
312,938
Public works
2,156,375
2,106,375
2,002,747
103,628
Health services
2,740
2,740
3,281
(541)
Leisure activities
712,664
762,664
778,937
(16,273)
Conservation and development
833,413
833,413
836,013
(2,600)
Debt Service
Principal
85,391
85,391
146,191
(60,800)
Interest and fiscal charges
13,753
13,753
23,461
(9,708)
Total Expenditures
9,950,302
9,950,302
9,388,167
562,135
Excess (deficiency) of revenues over
(under) expenditures
(889,008)
(889,008)
21,694
910,702
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES
(USES)
Transfers in
1,769,952
1,769,952
2,019,692
249,740
Transfers out
(607,531)
(850,214)
(1,591,418)
(741,204)
Property sales
15,000
15,000
36,548
21,548
Total Other Financing Sources
(Uses)
1,177,421
934,738
464,822
(469,916)
Net Change in Fund Balance
288,413
45,730
486,516
440,786
FUND BALANCE - Beginning of Year
10,135,147
10,135,147
10,135,147
-
FUND BALANCE - END OF YEAR
$
10,423,560
$
10,180,877
$
10,621,663
$
440,786
See independent auditors' report and accompanying notes to required supplementary information.
78
DRAFT 04/30/20
See accompanying notes to required supplementary information.
79
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
SCHEDULE OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES AND CHANGES
IN FUND BALANCE - BUDGET AND ACTUAL - TAX INCREMENT DISTRICT #10
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Budgeted Amounts
Variance with
Original and Final
Actual
Final Budget
REVENUES
   Taxes
416,090
$
415,641
$
(449)
$
   Intergovernmental
-
679
679
   Investment income
-
5,359
5,359
   Miscellaneous
-
7,344
7,344
Total Revenues
416,090
429,023
12,933
EXPENDITURES
   Current
      Conservation and development
4,000
7,787
(3,787)
   Capital Outlay
410,750
464,145
(53,395)
   Debt Service
      Principal retirement
204,809
204,809
-
      Interest and fiscal charges
132,204
132,228
(24)
Total Expenditures
751,763
808,969
(57,206)
   Excess (deficiency) of revenues over (under)
      expenditures
(335,673)
(379,946)
(44,273)
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES)
    Long-term debt issued
350,000
350,000
-
    Transfers from other funds
92,157
92,157
-
    Transfers to other funds
(54,099)
(29,799)
24,300
        Total Other Financing Sources (Uses)
388,058
412,358
24,300
      Net change in fund balance
52,385
32,412
(19,973)
FUND BALANCE (DEFICIT) - Beginning of Year
(3,411,828)
(3,411,828)
-
        FUND BALANCE (DEFICIT) - END OF YEAR
(3,359,443)
$
(3,379,416)
$
(19,973)
$
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-57
149
See accompanying notes to required supplementary information.
80
2019
2018
2017
Total OPEB Liability
Service cost
36,854
$
39,517
$
34,576
$
Interest
28,328
25,542
21,789
Changes of benefit terms
-
-
-
Differences between expected and actual experience
58,906
(17,294)
27,203
Changes of assumptions
44,979
(24,500)
65,960
Benefit payments
(51,861)
(45,877)
(41,071)
Net Change in Total OPEB Liability
117,206
(22,612)
108,457
Total OPEB Liability - Beginning
678,074
700,686
592,229
Total OPEB Liability - Ending
795,280
$
678,074
$
700,686
$
Covered-employee payroll
3,970,409
$
4,843,135
$
4,692,960
$
Total OPEB liability as a percentage of covered-
employee payroll
20.03%
14.00%
14.93%
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
SCHEDULE OF CHANGES IN THE TOTAL OPEB LIABILITY AND RELATED RATIOS
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Year End Date
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-58
150
See accompanying notes to required supplementary information.
81
City's
City's
City's Proportionate
Plan Fiduciary
WRS Fiscal
Proportion
Proportionate
Share of the
Net Position
Year End Date
of the Net
Share of the 
City's
Net Pension Asset/(Liability)
as a Percentage
(Measurement 
Pension
Net Pension
Covered
as a Percentage of
of the Total
Date)
Asset/(Liability)
Asset/(Liability)
Payroll
Covered Payroll
Pension Liability
12/31/18
0.05700718%
(2,028,136)
$
8,119,664
$
24.98%
96.45%
12/31/17
0.05357074%
1,590,578
7,708,241
20.63%
102.93%
12/31/16
0.05015113%
(413,365)
6,946,650
5.95%
99.12%
12/31/15
0.04847920%
(787,778)
6,407,948
12.29%
98.20%
12/31/14
0.04828345%
1,185,974
6,109,604
19.41%
102.74%
Contributions in
Relation to the
Contributions
Contractually
Contractually
Contribution
as a Percentage
City
Required 
Required
Deficiency
Covered
of Covered
Year End Date
Contributions
Contributions
(Excess)
Payroll
Payroll
12/31/19
630,482
$
630,482
$
-
$
8,119,377
$
7.77%
12/31/18
614,274
614,274
-
8,119,664
7.57%
12/31/17
595,057
595,057
-
7,708,241
7.72%
12/31/16
515,383
515,383
-
6,946,950
7.42%
12/31/15
462,018
462,018
-
6,407,948
7.21%
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
SCHEDULE OF EMPLOYER'S PROPORTIONATE SHARE OF THE NET PENSION ASSET/(LIABILITY) -
WISCONSIN RETIREMENT SYSTEM (WRS)
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
SCHEDULE OF EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS
WISCONSIN RETIREMENT SYSTEM (WRS)
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-59
151
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
NOTES TO REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
BUDGETARY INFORMATION
Budgetary information is derived from the annual operating budget and is presented using the same basis
of accounting for each fund as described in Note I. C.
The budgeted amounts presented include any amendments made. The city administrator may authorize
transfers of budgeted amounts within a fund and function. Transfers between funds or functions, and
changes to the overall budget must be approved by a two-thirds action of the City Council.
Appropriations lapse at year end unless specifically carried over. There were no carryovers to the following
year.  Budgets are adopted at the fund and function level of expenditure. 
OTHER POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT (OPEB) PLAN
The city implemented GASB Statement No. 75 in fiscal year 2017. Information prior to fiscal year 2017 is
not available.
The city is required to present the last ten fiscal years of date; however, accounting standards allow the
presentation of as many years as are available until ten fiscal years are presented.
Accumulation of assets. No assets are accumulated in a trust that meets the criteria in paragraph 4 of
Statement No. 75.
Changes in benefit terms and assumptions. There were no changes in the benefit terms. The discount
rate changed from 4.11 percent in 2018 to 3.26 percent in 2019. For 2019, mortality tables were updated
from RPH-2017 adjusted to 2006 Total Dataset Fully Generational using scale MP-2017 to five different
tables for various retiree groups, all of which are Headcount Weighted Mortality Tables generational using
Scale MP-2019. The termination rate, retirement rate, and disability rate assumptions were updated for
2019 to the most recent WRS tables as of December 31, 2018. Health care trend rates were updated for
2019 to an initial rate of 8.0% decreasing by .5% annually to an ultimate rate of 4.5%.
WISCONSIN RETIREMENT SYSTEM
The amounts determined for each fiscal year were determined as of the calendar year-end and occurred
within the fiscal year.
The city is required to present the last ten years of data; however accounting standards allow the
presentation of as many years as are available until ten fiscal years are presented.
Changes in benefit terms. There were no changes of benefit terms for any participating employer in the
Wisconsin Retirement System.
Changes in assumptions. Actuarial assumptions are based upon an experience study conducted in 2018
using experience from 2015 – 2017. Based on the experience study conducted in 2018, actuarial
assumptions used to develop Total Pension Liability changed, including the discount rate, long-term
expected rate of return, post-retirement adjustment, wage inflation rate, mortality and separation rates. 
See independent auditors' report.
82
DRAFT 04/30/20
S U P P L E M E N T A R Y   I N F O R M A T I O N
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-60
152
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
DETAILED SCHEDULE OF REVENUES AND OTHER FINANCING SOURCES - BUDGET AND ACTUAL -
GENERAL FUND
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Budgeted Amounts
Original
Final
Actual
Variance with
Final Budget
TAXES
General property taxes
$
4,299,053
$
4,299,053
$
4,303,908
$
4,855
Mobile home taxes
22,000
22,000
21,011
(989)
Payments in lieu of taxes - housing
authority
7,822
7,822
6,121
(1,701)
Payment in lieu of taxes - other
62,000
62,000
61,929
(71)
Interest and penalties on taxes
500
500
1,111
611
Total Taxes
4,391,375
4,391,375
4,394,080
2,705
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Special assessments
-
-
14,883
14,883
INTERGOVERNMENTAL
State shared revenues
2,078,524
2,078,524
2,104,720
26,196
Fire insurance from state
40,000
40,000
45,725
5,725
State aid - computers
10,000
10,000
10,754
754
State aid - police training
-
-
14,206
14,206
State aid - other public safety
24,000
24,000
28,002
4,002
State aid - streets
668,163
668,163
687,534
19,371
State aid - municipal services
262,000
262,000
267,468
5,468
Municipal grants
307,250
307,250
304,059
(3,191)
School district grant
100,000
100,000
106,984
6,984
Federal grants
74,640
74,640
-
(74,640)
Total Intergovernmental
3,564,577
3,564,577
3,569,452
4,875
LICENSES AND PERMITS
Liquor and malt beverage licenses
18,000
18,000
18,005
5
Operators' license
6,000
6,000
5,780
(220)
Cigarette licenses
1,000
1,000
1,800
800
Cable television franchise fees
140,180
140,180
134,215
(5,965)
Business and occupational licenses
1,500
1,500
1,970
470
Dog licenses
4,000
4,000
3,098
(902)
Housing inspection licenses
500
500
120
(380)
Plumbing permits
2,000
2,000
5,668
3,668
Building permits
130,000
130,000
297,576
167,576
Sign permits
500
500
2,457
1,957
Zoning permits 
3,000
3,000
3,900
900
Inspectors red seal
1,700
1,700
2,508
808
Total Licenses and Permits
308,380
308,380
477,097
168,717
83
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
DETAILED SCHEDULE OF REVENUES AND OTHER FINANCING SOURCES - BUDGET AND ACTUAL -
GENERAL FUND
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Budgeted Amounts
Original
Final
Actual
Variance with
Final Budget
FINES, FORFEITURES AND
PENALTIES
Court penalties and costs
$
70,000
$
70,000
$
54,979
$
(15,021)
Parking violations
105,000
105,000
96,151
(8,849)
Court costs
30,000
30,000
29,555
(445)
Total Fines, Forfeitures and
Penalties
205,000
205,000
180,685
(24,315)
PUBLIC CHARGES FOR SERVICES
Clerk's fees
9,000
9,000
8,503
(497)
Zoning administration fees
17,000
17,000
53,110
36,110
Publication fees
1,000
1,000
1,140
140
Plat review fees
10,000
10,000
10,000
-
Police department fees
10,000
10,000
8,893
(1,107)
Police towing
10,000
10,000
8,225
(1,775)
Fire department fees
15,000
15,000
14,951
(49)
Fire inspection fees
1,000
1,000
1,680
680
Highway maintenance and
construction
10,000
10,000
9,479
(521)
Weights and measures charges
4,475
4,475
4,300
(175)
Swimming pool
25,000
-
-
-
Parks
36,300
36,300
38,054
1,754
Recreation programs
55,000
80,000
76,585
(3,415)
Forestry fees
-
-
1,685
1,685
Other public charges for services
2,250
2,250
2,160
(90)
Total Public Charges for Services
206,025
206,025
238,765
32,740
INTERGOVERNMENTAL CHARGES
FOR SERVICES
Interdepartmental sales
25,000
25,000
20,498
(4,502)
INVESTMENT INCOME
Interest - interfund advances
204,000
204,000
204,000
-
Interest on temporary investments
100,000
100,000
163,911
63,911
Total Investment Income
304,000
304,000
367,911
63,911
MISCELLANEOUS
Rent of municipal buildings
2,200
2,200
8,730
6,530
Donations
5,350
5,350
4,943
(407)
Miscellaneous
49,387
49,387
132,817
83,430
Total Miscellaneous
56,937
56,937
146,490
89,553
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES
Transfers from other funds
1,769,952
1,769,952
2,019,692
249,740
Property sales
15,000
15,000
36,548
21,548
Total Other Financing Sources
1,784,952
1,784,952
2,056,240
271,288
TOTAL REVENUES AND
OTHER FINANCING
SOURCES
$
10,846,246
$
10,846,246
$
11,466,101
$
619,855
84
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-61
153
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
DETAILED SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES AND OTHER FINANCING USES - BUDGET AND ACTUAL -
GENERAL FUND
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Budgeted Amounts
Original
Final
Actual
Variance with
Final Budget
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Council
$
264,607
$
264,607
$
193,500
$
71,107
Municipal court
131,741
131,741
121,239
10,502
City administrator
633,701
633,701
562,334
71,367
Personnel
436,525
436,525
398,361
38,164
Clerk
163,235
163,235
153,617
9,618
Finance
401,754
401,754
370,805
30,949
Legal counseling
54,300
54,300
50,516
3,784
Total General Government
2,085,863
2,085,863
1,850,372
235,491
PUBLIC SAFETY
Police
3,304,454
3,304,454
3,165,648
138,806
Fire department
755,649
755,649
581,517
174,132
Total Public Safety
4,060,103
4,060,103
3,747,165
312,938
PUBLIC WORKS
Garage
365,767
365,767
322,296
43,471
Street maintenance
1,499,086
1,449,086
1,375,245
73,841
Engineer
291,522
291,522
305,206
(13,684)
Total Public Works
2,156,375
2,106,375
2,002,747
103,628
HEALTH SERVICES
Animal control
2,740
2,740
3,281
(541)
LEISURE ACTIVITIES
Recreation
144,441
144,441
142,440
2,001
Swimming
66,079
66,079
35,732
30,347
Parks
502,144
552,144
600,765
(48,621)
Total Leisure Activities
712,664
762,664
778,937
(16,273)
CONSERVATION AND
DEVELOPMENT
Forestry
68,555
68,555
79,460
(10,905)
Community development
764,858
764,858
756,553
8,305
Total Conservation and
Development
833,413
833,413
836,013
(2,600)
DEBT SERVICE
Principal on notes payable - fire
57,500
57,500
57,500
-
Principal retirements
27,891
27,891
88,691
(60,800)
Interest on notes payable - fire
11,568
11,568
11,568
-
Interest and fiscal charges
2,185
2,185
11,893
(9,708)
Total Debt Service
99,144
99,144
169,652
(70,508)
OTHER FINANCING USES
Transfers to other funds
607,531
850,214
1,591,418
(741,204)
TOTAL EXPENDITURES AND
OTHER FINANCING USES
$
10,557,833
$
10,800,516
$
10,979,585
$
(179,069)
85
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
COMBINING BALANCE SHEET
NONMAJOR GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS
As of December 31, 2019
Special Revenue Funds
Parking
Improvements
Refuse/Solid
Waste
Shared Ride
Taxi
Environmental
Fee
ASSETS
Cash and investments
$
66,470
$
84
$
17,972
$
1,592,767
Receivables
Taxes
-
-
-
-
Accounts
-
78,937
23,849
8,800
Accrued interest
-
-
-
2,805
Loans
-
-
-
-
Prepaid items and inventories
-
-
-
-
Due from other governments
-
273
6,162
-
Advances to other funds
-
-
-
1,500,000
TOTAL ASSETS
$
66,470
$
79,294
$
47,983
$
3,104,372
LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS OF
RESOURCES, AND FUND BALANCES
Liabilities
Accounts payable
$
315
$
128
$
16,701
$
-
Accrued liabilities
-
-
-
-
Deposits
-
-
-
-
Due to other funds
-
-
-
-
Advances from other funds
-
-
-
-
Total Liabilities
315
128
16,701
-
Deferred Inflows of Resources
Unearned revenues
-
-
-
-
Unavailable revenues
-
273
8,412
-
Total Deferred Inflows of Resources
-
273
8,412
-
Fund Balances
Nonspendable
-
-
-
-
Restricted
66,155
78,893
22,870
3,104,372
Committed
-
-
-
-
Unassigned (deficit)
-
-
-
-
Total Fund Balances (Deficit)
66,155
78,893
22,870
3,104,372
TOTAL LIABILITIES,
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF
RESOURCES, AND FUND
BALANCES
$
66,470
$
79,294
$
47,983
$
3,104,372
86
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-62
154
Special Revenue Funds
Park
Acquisition
Fund
Tax Increment
District #5
Tax Increment
District #6
Tax Increment
District #8
Tax Increment
District #9
Tax Increment
District #11
Tax Increment
District #12
$
1,125
$
-
$
3,692
$
726
$
-
$
-
$
1,034
-
511,633
186,163
71,357
64,645
1,038
41,512
-
9,343
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
24,030
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
12
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
$
1,125
$
545,006
$
189,855
$
72,083
$
64,645
$
1,038
$
42,558
$
-
$
5,325
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
4,072
$
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
172,018
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
917,045
118,157
381,709
164,611
629,726
-
177,343
917,045
118,157
381,709
168,683
629,726
-
511,633
186,163
71,357
64,645
1,038
41,512
-
24,030
-
-
-
-
-
-
535,663
186,163
71,357
64,645
1,038
41,512
-
-
-
-
-
-
12
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,125
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(168,000)
(913,353)
(117,431)
(381,709)
(168,683)
(628,692)
1,125
(168,000)
(913,353)
(117,431)
(381,709)
(168,683)
(628,680)
$
1,125
$
545,006
$
189,855
$
72,083
$
64,645
$
1,038
$
42,558
87
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
COMBINING BALANCE SHEET
NONMAJOR GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS
As of December 31, 2019
Special Revenue Funds
Tax Increment
District #13
Tax Increment
District #14
Library
Commercial
Revolving
Loan Fund
ASSETS
Cash and investments
$
-
$
420,384
$
153,328
$
-
Receivables
Taxes
57,079
31,086
855,000
-
Accounts
-
-
-
-
Accrued interest
-
-
-
-
Loans
-
-
-
91,107
Prepaid items and inventories
-
-
4,846
-
Due from other governments
-
-
-
-
Advances to other funds
-
-
-
-
TOTAL ASSETS
$
57,079
$
451,470
$
1,013,174
$
91,107
LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS OF
RESOURCES, AND FUND BALANCES
Liabilities
Accounts payable
$
-
$
-
$
12,645
$
-
Accrued liabilities
-
-
29,059
-
Deposits
-
4,690
-
-
Due to other funds
14,352
-
-
6,404
Advances from other funds
-
-
-
-
Total Liabilities
14,352
4,690
41,704
6,404
Deferred Inflows of Resources
Unearned revenues
57,079
31,086
855,000
-
Unavailable revenues
-
-
-
91,107
Total Deferred Inflows of Resources
57,079
31,086
855,000
91,107
Fund Balances
Nonspendable
-
-
4,846
-
Restricted
-
415,694
111,624
-
Committed
-
-
-
-
Unassigned (deficit)
(14,352)
-
-
(6,404)
Total Fund Balances (Deficit)
(14,352)
415,694
116,470
(6,404)
TOTAL LIABILITIES,
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF
RESOURCES, AND FUND
BALANCES
$
57,079
$
451,470
$
1,013,174
$
91,107
88
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-63
155
Special Revenue Funds
Park Impact
Fees
Library Impact
Fees
Fire Impact
Fees
Housing
Reserve
Library Trust
Fund
Tourism and
Economic
Development
$
251,527
$
743
$
822
$
745,668
$
156,144
$
317,949
-
-
-
-
-
2,500
-
54,433
-
-
-
35,513
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
163,675
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
$
251,527
$
55,176
$
822
$
909,343
$
156,144
$
355,962
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
2,733
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
107,324
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,000,000
-
107,324
-
-
-
1,002,733
-
-
-
-
-
2,500
-
-
-
163,675
-
-
-
-
-
163,675
-
2,500
-
-
-
-
-
-
251,527
-
822
745,668
156,144
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(52,148)
-
-
-
(649,271)
251,527
(52,148)
822
745,668
156,144
(649,271)
$
251,527
$
55,176
$
822
$
909,343
$
156,144
$
355,962
89
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
COMBINING BALANCE SHEET
NONMAJOR GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS
As of December 31, 2019
Debt Service Funds
Capital
Projects Fund
Debt Service
Notes
Debt Service
Bonds
Capital
Equipment
Total
Nonmajor
Governmental
Funds
ASSETS
Cash and investments
$
14,861
$
17,411
$
205,448
$
3,968,155
Receivables
Taxes
506,263
477,417
265,103
3,070,796
Accounts
-
-
-
210,875
Accrued interest
-
-
-
2,805
Loans
-
-
-
278,812
Prepaid items and inventories
-
-
627,861
632,719
Due from other governments
-
-
-
6,435
Advances to other funds
-
-
-
1,500,000
TOTAL ASSETS
$
521,124
$
494,828
$
1,098,412
$
9,670,597
LIABILITIES, DEFERRED INFLOWS OF
RESOURCES, AND FUND BALANCES
Liabilities
Accounts payable
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
41,919
Accrued liabilities
-
-
-
29,059
Deposits
-
-
-
4,690
Due to other funds
-
52,999
-
353,097
Advances from other funds
-
-
-
3,211,248
Total Liabilities
-
52,999
-
3,640,013
Deferred Inflows of Resources
Unearned revenues
506,263
477,417
265,103
3,070,796
Unavailable revenues
-
-
-
287,497
Total Deferred Inflows of Resources
506,263
477,417
265,103
3,358,293
Fund Balances
Nonspendable
-
-
627,861
632,719
Restricted
14,861
-
-
4,968,630
Committed
-
-
205,448
206,573
Unassigned (deficit)
-
(35,588)
-
(3,135,631)
Total Fund Balances (Deficit)
14,861
(35,588)
833,309
2,672,291
TOTAL LIABILITIES,
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF
RESOURCES, AND FUND
BALANCES
$
521,124
$
494,828
$
1,098,412
$
9,670,597
90
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-64
156
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
COMBINING STATEMENT OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES, AND CHANGES
IN FUND BALANCES
NONMAJOR GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Special Revenue Funds
Parking
Improvements
Refuse/Solid
Waste
Shared Ride
Taxi
REVENUES
Taxes
$
-
$
-
$
-
Special assessments
-
-
-
Intergovernmental
-
12,157
208,862
Public charges for services
-
769,315
-
Investment income
465
31
523
Miscellaneous
-
-
-
Total Revenues
465
781,503
209,385
EXPENDITURES
Current
Public safety
9,549
-
-
Public works
-
750,632
206,356
Leisure activities
-
-
-
Conservation and development
-
-
-
Capital Outlay
-
-
40,134
Debt Service
Principal retirement
-
-
-
Interest and fiscal charges
-
-
-
Total Expenditures
9,549
750,632
246,490
Excess (deficiency) of revenues over expenditures
(9,084)
30,871
(37,105)
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES)
Long-term debt issued
-
-
-
Transfers from other funds
-
-
17,175
Transfers to other funds
-
(19,883)
(2,595)
Property sales
-
-
3,300
Total Other Financing Sources (Uses)
-
(19,883)
17,880
Net Change in Fund Balances
(9,084)
10,988
(19,225)
FUND BALANCES (DEFICIT) -
Beginning of Year
75,239
67,905
42,095
FUND BALANCES (DEFICIT) -
END OF YEAR
$
66,155
$
78,893
$
22,870
91
DRAFT 04/30/20
Special Revenue Funds
Environmental
Fee
Park
Acquisition
Fund
Tax Increment
District #5
Tax Increment
District #6
Tax Increment
District #8
Tax Increment
District #9
Tax Increment
District #11
$
-
$
-
$
510,837
$
185,663
$
69,974
$
62,375
$
9,706
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
15,910
431
123
2,645
43
93,026
-
-
-
-
-
-
53,292
-
9,168
-
-
57
-
-
-
32,449
-
-
21,153
-
146,318
-
568,364
186,094
70,097
86,230
9,749
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
32,051
-
25,341
871
65,011
70,871
879
-
-
-
-
-
-
150,913
-
-
170,000
130,000
-
70,400
-
-
-
233,285
39,381
-
7,210
-
32,051
-
428,626
170,252
65,011
148,481
151,792
114,267
-
139,738
15,842
5,086
(62,251)
(142,043)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
64,866
-
(3,733)
-
(143,529)
(12,724)
(4,360)
(5,698)
(4,957)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(3,733)
-
(143,529)
(12,724)
(4,360)
59,168
(4,957)
110,534
-
(3,791)
3,118
726
(3,083)
(147,000)
2,993,838
1,125
(164,209)
(916,471)
(118,157)
(378,626)
(21,683)
$
3,104,372
$
1,125
$
(168,000) $
(913,353) $
(117,431) $
(381,709) $
(168,683)
92
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-65
157
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
COMBINING STATEMENT OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES, AND CHANGES
IN FUND BALANCES
NONMAJOR GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Special Revenue Funds
Tax Increment
District #12
Tax Increment
District #13
Tax Increment
District #14
REVENUES
Taxes
$
40,354
$
-
$
-
Special assessments
-
-
-
Intergovernmental
133
-
-
Public charges for services
-
-
-
Investment income
-
-
8,393
Miscellaneous
-
-
-
Total Revenues
40,487
-
8,393
EXPENDITURES
Current
Public safety
-
-
-
Public works
-
-
-
Leisure activities
-
-
-
Conservation and development
4,105
5,852
26,199
Capital Outlay
-
-
-
Debt Service
Principal retirement
-
-
-
Interest and fiscal charges
-
-
-
Total Expenditures
4,105
5,852
26,199
Excess (deficiency) of revenues over expenditures
36,382
(5,852)
(17,806)
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES)
Long-term debt issued
-
-
-
Transfers from other funds
-
-
-
Transfers to other funds
(1,458)
-
-
Property sales
-
-
444,000
Total Other Financing Sources (Uses)
(1,458)
-
444,000
Net Change in Fund Balances
34,924
(5,852)
426,194
FUND BALANCES (DEFICIT) -
Beginning of Year
(663,604)
(8,500)
(10,500)
FUND BALANCES (DEFICIT) -
END OF YEAR
$
(628,680) $
(14,352) $
415,694
93
DRAFT 04/30/20
Special Revenue Funds
Library
Commercial
Revolving
Loan Fund
Park Impact
Fees
Library Impact
Fees
Fire Impact
Fees
Housing
Reserve
Library Trust
Fund
$
869,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
369,329
-
-
-
-
-
-
25,173
-
113,250
74,502
64,188
-
-
14,935
2,174
8,303
98
1,769
16,426
3,761
11,979
22,825
-
24,840
3,030
23,922
15,645
1,290,416
24,999
121,553
99,440
68,987
40,348
19,406
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,080,592
-
-
1,576
-
-
37,767
-
50,000
-
-
-
-
-
60
-
-
-
444,612
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,080,652
50,000
-
1,576
444,612
-
37,767
209,764
(25,001)
121,553
97,864
(375,625)
40,348
(18,361)
-
-
-
-
270,000
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
50
(152,307)
(1,089)
(152,222)
(1,169)
(27,964)
(3,550)
(167)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(152,307)
(1,089)
(152,222)
(1,169)
242,036
(3,550)
(117)
57,457
(26,090)
(30,669)
96,695
(133,589)
36,798
(18,478)
59,013
19,686
282,196
(148,843)
134,411
708,870
174,622
$
116,470
$
(6,404) $
251,527
$
(52,148) $
822
$
745,668
$
156,144
94
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-66
158
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
COMBINING STATEMENT OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES, AND CHANGES
IN FUND BALANCES
NONMAJOR GOVERNMENTAL FUNDS
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Special
Revenue
Funds
Debt Service
Tourism and
Economic
Development
Debt Service
Notes
Debt Service
Bonds
REVENUES
Taxes
$
140,602
$
514,417
$
283,054
Special assessments
2,500
-
-
Intergovernmental
55,382
-
-
Public charges for services
-
-
-
Investment income
7,472
5,718
-
Miscellaneous
-
-
48,539
Total Revenues
205,956
520,135
331,593
EXPENDITURES
Current
Public safety
-
-
-
Public works
-
-
-
Leisure activities
-
-
-
Conservation and development
104,237
-
-
Capital Outlay
-
-
-
Debt Service
Principal retirement
-
570,000
322,488
Interest and fiscal charges
-
117,863
230,124
Total Expenditures
104,237
687,863
552,612
Excess (deficiency) of revenues over expenditures
101,719
(167,728)
(221,019)
OTHER FINANCING SOURCES (USES)
Long-term debt issued
-
-
-
Transfers from other funds
13,000
178,947
221,947
Transfers to other funds
(49,304)
(151,902)
(2,031)
Property sales
-
-
-
Total Other Financing Sources (Uses)
(36,304)
27,045
219,916
Net Change in Fund Balances
65,415
(140,683)
(1,103)
FUND BALANCES (DEFICIT) -
Beginning of Year
(714,686)
155,544
(34,485)
FUND BALANCES (DEFICIT) -
END OF YEAR
$
(649,271) $
14,861
$
(35,588)
95
DRAFT 04/30/20
Capital
Projects
Capital
Equipment
Total
Nonmajor
Governmental
Funds
$
364,736
$
3,050,718
-
2,500
-
665,015
-
1,139,454
3,183
135,768
11,001
215,383
378,920
5,208,838
-
9,549
-
956,988
-
1,119,935
-
385,417
462,118
1,097,837
-
1,262,888
-
627,863
462,118
5,460,477
(83,198)
(251,639)
268,000
538,000
627,000
1,122,985
(14,936)
(755,578)
-
447,300
880,064
1,352,707
796,866
1,101,068
36,443
1,571,223
$
833,309
$
2,672,291
96
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-67
159
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
COMBINING STATEMENT OF NET POSITION
NONMAJOR ENTERPRISE FUNDS
As of December 31, 2019
Stormwater
Ambulance
Total Nonmajor
Enterprise
Funds
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and investments
$
636,743
$
96,710
$
733,453
Receivables (net)
Accounts
51,044
644,909
695,953
Prepaid items
1,404
4,039
5,443
Total Current Assets
689,191
745,658
1,434,849
Noncurrent Assets
Capital Assets
Land
-
101,298
101,298
Construction in progress
64,350
-
64,350
Property and equipment
8,776,390
1,962,663
10,739,053
Less: Accumulated depreciation
(2,467,089)
(1,436,290)
(3,903,379)
Total Noncurrent Assets
6,373,651
627,671
7,001,322
Total Assets
7,062,842
1,373,329
8,436,171
DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Pension related amounts
85,596
441,165
526,761
OPEB related amounts
-
3,408
3,408
Total Deferred Outflows of Resources
85,596
444,573
530,169
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable
39,486
11,459
50,945
Customer deposits
60,000
-
60,000
Accrued liabilities
7,681
52,475
60,156
Due to other funds
-
135,616
135,616
Current portion of compensated absences
-
25,875
25,875
Total Current Liabilities
107,167
225,425
332,592
Noncurrent Liabilities
Long-Term Debt
Net pension liability
29,691
180,032
209,723
Other postemployment benefits
-
18,402
18,402
Total Noncurrent Liabilities
29,691
198,434
228,125
Total Liabilities
136,858
423,859
560,717
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Pension related amounts
41,142
219,708
260,850
OPEB related amounts
-
691
691
Total Deferred Inflows of Resources
41,142
220,399
261,541
NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets
6,373,651
627,671
7,001,322
Unrestricted
596,787
545,973
1,142,760
TOTAL NET POSITION
$
6,970,438
$
1,173,644
$
8,144,082
97
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
COMBINING STATEMENT OF REVENUES, EXPENSES, AND
CHANGES IN FUND NET POSITION
NONMAJOR ENTERPRISE FUNDS
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Stormwater
Ambulance
Total Nonmajor
Enterprise
Funds
OPERATING REVENUES
Public charges for services
$
568,676
$
1,423,993
$
1,992,669
Total Operating Revenues 
568,676
1,423,993
1,992,669
OPERATING EXPENSES
Operation and maintenance
387,971
1,717,121
2,105,092
Depreciation
173,467
127,967
301,434
Total Operating Expenses 
561,438
1,845,088
2,406,526
Operating Income (Loss)
7,238
(421,095)
(413,857)
NONOPERATING REVENUES (EXPENSES)
Intergovernmental
-
9,101
9,101
Investment income
13,181
341
13,522
Interest and fiscal charges
(1,366)
-
(1,366)
Miscellaneous
9,501
13,698
23,199
Total Nonoperating Revenues (Expenses)
21,316
23,140
44,456
Income (Loss) Before Contributions and Transfers
28,554
(397,955)
(369,401)
CONTRIBUTIONS AND TRANSFERS
Capital contributions
130,243
-
130,243
Transfers to other funds
(54,366)
(125,056)
(179,422)
Total Contributions and Transfers
75,877
(125,056)
(49,179)
Change in Net Position
104,431
(523,011)
(418,580)
NET POSITION - Beginning of Year
6,866,007
1,696,655
8,562,662
NET POSITION - END OF YEAR
$
6,970,438
$
1,173,644
$
8,144,082
98
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-68
160
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
COMBINING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
NONMAJOR ENTERPRISE FUNDS
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
Stormwater
Ambulance
Total Nonmajor
Enterprise
Funds
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Received from customers
$
583,084
$
1,406,989
$
1,990,073
Paid to suppliers for goods and services
(201,159)
(457,457)
(658,616)
Paid to employees for services
(140,732)
(1,067,159)
(1,207,891)
Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities
241,193
(117,627)
123,566
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Investment income
13,181
341
13,522
Net Cash Flows From Investing Activities
13,181
341
13,522
CASH FLOWS FROM NONCAPITAL FINANCING
ACTIVITIES
Transfers to other funds
(54,366)
(125,056)
(179,422)
Net Cash Flows From Noncapital Financing Activities
(54,366)
(125,056)
(179,422)
CASH FLOWS FROM CAPITAL AND RELATED
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Interest paid
(1,366)
-
(1,366)
Proceeds from sale/transfer of capital assets
-
27,398
27,398
Net Cash Flows From Capital and Related Financing
Activities
(1,366)
27,398
26,032
Net Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents
198,642
(214,944)
(16,302)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS - Beginning of Year
438,101
311,654
749,755
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS - END OF YEAR
$
636,743
$
96,710
$
733,453
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) TO
NET CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Operating income (loss)
$
7,238
$
(421,095) $
(413,857)
Nonoperating revenue
9,501
22,799
32,300
Adjustments to Reconcile Operating Income (Loss) to Net
Cash Flows From Operating Activities
Depreciation
173,467
127,967
301,434
Changes in assets, deferred outflows of resources,
liabilities, and deferred inflows of resources
Accounts receivable
(93)
(39,803)
(39,896)
Prepaid items
1,125
16,426
17,551
Accounts payable
36,814
4,460
41,274
Accrued liabilities
1,600
(4,284)
(2,684)
Due to other funds
-
135,616
135,616
Customer deposits
5,000
-
5,000
Compensated absences
-
828
828
Other postemployment benefits and related deferrals
-
1,440
1,440
Pension related deferrals and liability
6,541
38,019
44,560
NET CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING
ACTIVITIES
$
241,193
$
(117,627) $
123,566
NONCASH CAPITAL AND RELATED FINANCING
ACTIVITIES
Capital assets contributed by developers
$
130,243
$
-
$
130,243
99
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
COMBINING STATEMENT OF NET POSITION
INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS
As of December 31, 2019
City Hall
Motor Pool
Technology
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and investments
$
63,552
$
61
$
27,917
Other receivables
-
-
-
Prepaid items
1,976
154
17,159
Total Current Assets
65,528
215
45,076
Noncurrent Assets
Capital assets
Property and equipment
-
18,075
525,268
Less: Accumulated depreciation
-
(3,314)
(326,312)
Total Noncurrent Assets
-
14,761
198,956
Total Assets
65,528
14,976
244,032
DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Pension related amounts
-
-
79,615
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable
6,145
119
5,142
Accrued liabilities
-
-
6,932
Due to other funds
-
17,299
-
Total Current Liabilities
6,145
17,418
12,074
Noncurrent Liabilities
Net pension liability
-
-
37,086
Total Noncurrent Liabilities
-
-
37,086
Total Liabilities
6,145
17,418
49,160
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Pension related amounts
-
-
46,872
NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets
-
14,761
198,956
Unrestricted (deficit)
59,383
(17,203)
28,659
TOTAL NET POSITION
$
59,383
$
(2,442) $
227,615
100
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-69
161
Maintenance
Totals
$
31,754
$
123,284
847
847
508
19,797
33,109
143,928
-
543,343
-
(329,626)
-
213,717
33,109
357,645
89,270
168,885
213
11,619
10,615
17,547
-
17,299
10,828
46,465
42,430
79,516
42,430
79,516
53,258
125,981
44,223
91,095
-
213,717
24,898
95,737
$
24,898
$
309,454
101
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
COMBINING STATEMENT OF REVENUES, EXPENSES, AND
CHANGES IN FUND NET POSITION
INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
City Hall
Motor Pool
Technology
OPERATING REVENUES
Public charges for services
$
257,161
$
-
$
36,900
Total Operating Revenues
257,161
-
36,900
OPERATING EXPENSES
Operation and maintenance
102,015
29,871
569,733
Depreciation expense
-
3,314
54,238
Total Operating Expenses
102,015
33,185
623,971
Operating Income (Loss)
155,146
(33,185)
(587,071)
NONOPERATING REVENUES
Investment income
203
-
254
Miscellaneous
-
-
782
Total Nonoperating Revenues
203
-
1,036
Income (Loss) Before Transfers
155,349
(33,185)
(586,035)
TRANSFERS
Transfers from other funds
272,367
22,595
647,955
Transfers to other funds
(218,017)
(614)
(21,676)
Total Transfers
54,350
21,981
626,279
Change in net position
209,699
(11,204)
40,244
NET POSITION (DEFICIT) - Beginning of Year
(150,316)
8,762
187,371
NET POSITION (DEFICIT) - END OF YEAR
$
59,383
$
(2,442) $
227,615
102
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-70
162
Maintenance
Totals
$
-
$
294,061
-
294,061
317,709
1,019,328
-
57,552
317,709
1,076,880
(317,709)
(782,819)
-
457
1,629
2,411
1,629
2,868
(316,080)
(779,951)
363,057
1,305,974
(55,649)
(295,956)
307,408
1,010,018
(8,672)
230,067
33,570
79,387
$
24,898
$
309,454
103
DRAFT 04/30/20
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
COMBINING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
City Hall
Motor Pool
Technology
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Received from customers
$
259,956
$
-
$
37,743
Paid to suppliers for goods and services
(262,546)
(11,813)
(548,560)
Paid to employees for services
-
-
(124,699)
Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities
(2,590)
(11,813)
(635,516)
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Investment income
203
-
254
Net Cash Flows From Investing Activities
203
-
254
CASH FLOWS FROM NONCAPITAL FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Transfers to/from other funds
54,350
21,981
626,279
Net Cash Flows From Noncapital Financing Activities
54,350
21,981
626,279
CASH FLOWS FROM CAPITAL AND RELATED FINANCING
ACTIVITIES
Acquisition and construction of capital assets
-
(18,075)
-
Net Cash Flows From Capital and Related Financing
Activities
-
(18,075)
-
Net Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents
51,963
(7,907)
(8,983)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS - Beginning of Year
11,589
7,968
36,900
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS - END OF YEAR
$
63,552
$
61
$
27,917
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) TO NET
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Operating income (loss)
$
155,146
$
(33,185) $
(587,071)
Nonoperating revenue
-
-
782
Adjustments to Reconcile Operating Income (Loss) to Net
Cash Flows From Operating Activities
Depreciation
-
3,314
54,238
Changes in assets, deferred outflows of resources, liabilities,
and deferred inflows of resources
Other receivables
2,795
-
61
Prepaid items
813
786
(10,559)
Due from other funds
-
17,299
-
Accounts payable
(949)
(27)
(4,324)
Due to other funds
(160,395)
-
(102,298)
Accrued liabilities
-
-
1,615
Pension related deferrals and liability
-
-
12,040
NET CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES $
(2,590) $
(11,813) $
(635,516)
NONCASH CAPITAL AND RELATED FINANCING ACTIVITIES
None
104
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-71
163
Maintenance
Totals
$
1,977
$
299,676
(102,152)
(925,071)
(199,953)
(324,652)
(300,128)
(950,047)
-
457
-
457
307,408
1,010,018
307,408
1,010,018
-
(18,075)
-
(18,075)
7,280
42,353
24,474
80,931
$
31,754
$
123,284
$
(317,709) $
(782,819)
1,629
2,411
-
57,552
348
3,204
1,696
(7,264)
-
17,299
69
(5,231)
-
(262,693)
2,063
3,678
11,776
23,816
$
(300,128) $
(950,047)
105
DRAFT 04/30/20
106
Business
Improvement
District
        ASSETS
Cash and investments
18,400
$
Special assessments receivable
42,000
    TOTAL ASSETS 
60,400
$
        DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Unavailable revenue
42,000
$
        Total Deferred Inflows of Resources
42,000
        FUND BALANCES
Unassigned
18,400
     TOTAL DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES AND FUND BALANCES
60,400
$
RECONCILIATION OF FUND BALANCE TO NET POSITION
Fund balance at year-end
18,400
$
Special assessments are reported as unavailable revenue in the fund 
financial statements but are recognized as revenue when earned in the
government-wide financial statements.
42,000
NET POSITION AT YEAR END
60,400
$
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
BALANCE SHEET
GOVERNMENTAL COMPONENT UNIT
As of December 31, 2019
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-72
164
107
Business
Improvement
District
REVENUES
    Special assessments
42,000
$          
        Total Revenues
42,000
            
EXPENDITURES
    Conservation and development
50,511
            
        Total Expenditures
50,511
            
Change in fund balance
(8,511)
             
    FUND BALANCE  - Beginning of Year
26,911
            
        FUND BALANCE - END OF YEAR
18,400
$          
RECONCILIATION OF CHANGE IN FUND BALANCE TO CHANGE IN NET POSITION
Change in fund balance
(8,511)
$           
Special assessments not currently available are reported as revenue when
collected or currently available in the fund financial statements but are recognized
as revenue when earned in the government-wide financial statements.
-
                  
CHANGE IN NET POSITION
(8,511)
$           
For the Year Ended December 31, 2019
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
GOVERNMENTAL COMPONENT UNIT
STATEMENT OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES AND CHANGES
IN FUND BALANCE
DRAFT 04/30/20
A-73
165
A-74
166
A-75
167
A-76
168
A-77
169
A-78
170
A-79
171
A-80
172
A-81
173
A-82
174
A-83
175
A-84
176
A-85
177
A-86
178
A-87
179
A-88
180
A-89
181
A-90
182
A-91
183
A-92
184
A-93
185
A-94
186
A-95
187
A-96
188
A-97
189
A-98
190
A-99
191
A-100
192
A-101
193
A-102
194
A-103
195
A-104
196
A-105
197
A-106
198
A-107
199
A-108
200
A-109
201
A-110
202
A-111
203
A-112
204
A-113
205
A-114
206
A-115
207
A-116
208
A-117
209
A-118
210
A-119
211
A-120
212
A-121
213
A-122
214
A-123
215
A-124
216
A-125
217
A-126
218
A-127
219
A-128
220
A-129
221
A-130
222
A-131
223
A-132
224
A-133
225
A-134
226
A-135
227
A-136
228
A-137
229
A-138
230
A-139
231
A-140
232
A-141
233
A-142
234
A-143
235
A-144
236
A-145
237
A-146
238
A-147
239
A-148
240
A-149
241
A-150
242
A-151
243
A-152
244
A-153
245
A-154
246
A-155
247
A-156
248
A-157
249
A-158
250
A-159
251
A-160
252
A-161
253
A-162
254
A-163
255
A-164
256
A-165
257
APPENDIX B
FORM OF LEGAL OPINION
(See following pages.)
B-1
258
QB\63289866.1
Quarles & Brady LLP 
411 East Wisconsin Avenue 
Milwaukee, WI  53202 
June 30, 2020 
Re: 
City of River Falls, Wisconsin ("Issuer") 
$6,250,000 General Obligation Corporate Purpose Bonds, Series 2020A, 
dated June 30, 2020 ("Bonds") 
We have acted as bond counsel to the Issuer in connection with the issuance of the 
Bonds.  In such capacity, we have examined such law and such certified proceedings, 
certifications, and other documents as we have deemed necessary to render this opinion. 
Regarding questions of fact material to our opinion, we have relied on the certified 
proceedings and other certifications of public officials and others furnished to us without 
undertaking to verify the same by independent investigation. 
The Bonds are numbered from R-1 and upward; bear interest at the rates set forth below; 
and mature on March 1 of each year, in the years and principal amounts as follows: 
Year 
Principal Amount 
Interest Rate 
2021 
$  80,000 
___% 
2022 
345,000 
___ 
2023 
350,000 
___ 
2024 
355,000 
___ 
2025 
360,000 
___ 
2026 
360,000 
___ 
2027 
365,000 
___ 
2028 
370,000 
___ 
2029 
380,000 
___ 
2030 
385,000 
___ 
2031 
395,000 
___ 
2032 
310,000 
___ 
2033 
310,000 
___ 
2034 
320,000 
___ 
2035 
330,000 
___ 
2036 
275,000 
___ 
2037 
285,000 
___ 
2038 
290,000 
___ 
2039 
190,000 
___ 
2040 
195,000 
___ 
Interest is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year commencing on 
March 1, 2021. 
B-2
259
QB\63289866.1
 
The Bonds maturing on March 1, 2029 and thereafter are subject to redemption prior to 
maturity, at the option of the Issuer, on March 1, 2028 or on any date thereafter.  Said Bonds are 
redeemable as a whole or in part, and if in part, from maturities selected by the Issuer, and within 
each maturity by lot, at the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest to the date of 
redemption. 
 
[The Bonds maturing in the years _______________ are subject to mandatory 
redemption by lot as provided in the Bonds, at the redemption price of par plus accrued interest 
to the date of redemption and without premium.] 
 
We further certify that we have examined a sample of the Bonds and find the same to be 
in proper form. 
 
Based upon and subject to the foregoing, it is our opinion under existing law that: 
 
1. 
The Bonds have been duly authorized and executed by the Issuer and are valid 
and binding general obligations of the Issuer. 
 
2. 
All the taxable property in the territory of the Issuer is subject to the levy of ad 
valorem taxes to pay principal of, and interest on, the Bonds, without limitation as to rate or 
amount.  The Issuer is required by law to include in its annual tax levy the principal and interest 
coming due on the Bonds except to the extent that necessary funds have been irrevocably 
deposited into the debt service fund account established for the payment of the principal of and 
interest on the Bonds. 
 
3. 
The interest on the Bonds is excludable for federal income tax purposes from the 
gross income of the owners of the Bonds.  The interest on the Bonds is not an item of tax 
preference for purposes of the federal alternative minimum tax imposed by Section 55 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") on individuals.  The Code contains 
requirements that must be satisfied subsequent to the issuance of the Bonds in order for interest 
on the Bonds to be or continue to be excludable from gross income for federal income tax 
purposes.  Failure to comply with certain of those requirements could cause the interest on the 
Bonds to be included in gross income retroactively to the date of issuance of the Bonds.  The 
Issuer has agreed to comply with all of those requirements.  The opinion set forth in the first 
sentence of this paragraph is subject to the condition that the Issuer comply with those 
requirements.  We express no opinion regarding other federal tax consequences arising with 
respect to the Bonds. 
 
We express no opinion regarding the accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of the Official 
Statement or any other offering material relating to the Bonds.  Further, we express no opinion 
regarding tax consequences arising with respect to the Bonds other than as expressly set forth 
herein. 
 
The rights of the owners of the Bonds and the enforceability thereof may be subject to 
bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting creditors' rights 
and may be subject to the exercise of judicial discretion in accordance with general principles of 
equity, whether considered at law or in equity. 
B-3
260
QB\63289866.1
 
 
This opinion is given as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to revise or 
supplement this opinion to reflect any facts or circumstances that may hereafter come to our 
attention, or any changes in law that may hereafter occur. 
 
QUARLES & BRADY LLP 
B-4
261
APPENDIX C
BOOK-ENTRY-ONLY SYSTEM
1.
The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), New York, New York, will act as securities depository for the securities
(the "Securities").  The Securities will be issued as fully-registered securities registered in the name of Cede & Co.
(DTC's partnership nominee) or such other name as may be requested by an authorized representative of DTC. 
One fully-registered Security certificate will be issued for [each issue of] the Securities, [each] in the aggregate
principal amount of such issue, and will be deposited with DTC.  [If, however, the aggregate principal amount of
[any] issue exceeds $500 million, one certificate will be issued with respect to each $500 million of principal
amount, and an additional certificate will be issued with respect to any remaining principal amount of such issue.] 
 
2. 
DTC, the world's largest securities depository, is a limited-purpose trust company organized under the New York
Banking Law, a "banking organization" within the meaning of the New York Banking Law, a member of the
Federal Reserve System, a "clearing corporation" within the meaning of the New York Uniform Commercial Code,
and a "clearing agency" registered pursuant to the provisions of Section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.  DTC holds and provides asset servicing for over 3.5 million issues of U.S. and non-U.S. equity issues,
corporate and municipal debt issues, and money market instruments (from over 100 countries) that DTC's
participants ("Direct Participants") deposit with DTC.  DTC also facilitates the post-trade settlement among Direct
Participants of sales and other securities transactions in deposited securities, through electronic computerized
book-entry transfers and pledges between Direct Participants' accounts.  This eliminates the need for physical
movement of securities certificates.  Direct Participants include both U.S. and non-U.S. securities brokers and
dealers, banks, trust companies, clearing corporations, and certain other organizations.  DTC is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation ("DTCC").  DTCC is the holding company for DTC,
National Securities Clearing Corporation and Fixed Income Clearing Corporation, all of which are registered
clearing agencies.  DTCC is owned by the users of its regulated subsidiaries.  Access to the DTC system is also
available to others such as both U.S. and non-U.S. securities brokers and dealers, banks, trust companies, and
clearing corporations that clear through or maintain a custodial relationship with a Direct Participant, either directly
or indirectly ("Indirect Participants").  DTC has a Standard & Poor's rating of AA+.  The DTC Rules applicable
to its Participants are on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  More information about DTC can
be found at www.dtcc.com. 
 
3. 
Purchases of Securities under the DTC system must be made by or through Direct Participants, which will receive
a credit for the Securities on DTC's records.  The ownership interest  of each actual purchaser of each Security
("Beneficial Owner") is in turn to be recorded on the Direct and Indirect Participants' records.  Beneficial Owners
will not receive written confirmation from DTC of their purchase.  Beneficial Owners are, however, expected to
receive written confirmations providing details of the transaction, as well as periodic statements of their holdings,
from the Direct or Indirect Participant through which the Beneficial Owner entered into the transaction.  Transfers
of ownership interests in the Securities are to be accomplished by entries made on the books of Direct and Indirect
Participants acting on behalf of Beneficial Owners. Beneficial Owners will not receive certificates representing
their ownership interests in Securities, except in the event that use of the book-entry system for the Securities is
discontinued.  
 
4. 
To facilitate subsequent transfers, all Securities deposited by Direct Participants with DTC are registered in the
name of DTC's partnership nominee, Cede & Co., or such other name as may be requested by an authorized
representative of DTC.  The deposit of Securities with DTC and their registration in the name of Cede & Co. or
such other DTC nominee do not effect any change in beneficial ownership.  DTC has no knowledge of the actual
Beneficial Owners of the Securities; DTC's records reflect only the identity of the Direct Participants to whose
accounts such Securities are credited, which may or may not be the Beneficial Owners.  The Direct and Indirect
Participants will remain responsible for keeping account of their holdings on behalf of their customers. 
C-1
262
5. 
Conveyance of notices and other communications by DTC to Direct Participants, by Direct Participants to Indirect
Participants, and by Direct Participants and Indirect Participants to Beneficial Owners will be governed by
arrangements among them, subject to any statutory or regulatory requirements as may be in effect from time to
time.  [Beneficial Owners of Securities may wish to take certain steps to augment the transmission to them of
notices of significant events with respect to the Securities, such as redemptions, tenders, defaults, and proposed
amendments to the Security documents.  For example, Beneficial Owners of Securities may wish to ascertain that
the nominee holding the Securities for their benefit has agreed to obtain and transmit notices to Beneficial Owners. 
In the alternative, Beneficial Owners may wish to provide their names and addresses to the registrar and request
that copies of notices be provided directly to them.] 
 
6. 
Redemption notices shall be sent to DTC.  If less than all of the Securities within an issue are being redeemed,
DTC's practice is to determine by lot the amount of the interest of each Direct Participant in such issue to be
redeemed.  
 
7. 
Neither DTC nor Cede & Co. (nor any other DTC nominee) will consent or vote with respect to Securities unless
authorized by a Direct Participant in accordance with DTC's MMI Procedures.  Under its usual procedures, DTC
mails an Omnibus Proxy to  City as soon as possible after the record date.  The Omnibus Proxy assigns Cede &
Co.'s consenting or voting rights to those Direct Participants to whose accounts Securities are credited on the
record date (identified in a listing attached to the Omnibus Proxy). 
 
8. 
Redemption proceeds, distributions, and dividend payments on the Securities will be made to Cede & Co., or such
other nominee as may be requested by an authorized representative of DTC.  DTC's practice is to credit Direct
Participants' accounts upon DTC's receipt of funds and corresponding detail information from the City or Agent,
on payable date in accordance with their respective holdings shown on DTC's records.  Payments by Participants
to Beneficial Owners will be governed by standing instructions and customary practices, as is the case with
securities held for the accounts of customers in bearer form or registered in "street name," and will be the
responsibility of such Participant and not of DTC, Agent, or the City, subject to any statutory or regulatory
requirements as may be in effect from time to time.  Payment of redemption proceeds, distributions, and dividend
payments to Cede & Co. (or such other nominee as may be requested by an authorized representative of DTC) is
the responsibility of the City or Agent, disbursement of such payments to Direct Participants will be the
responsibility of DTC, and disbursement of such payments to the Beneficial Owners will be the responsibility of
Direct and Indirect Participants.   
 
9. 
A Beneficial Owner shall give notice to elect to have its Securities purchased or tendered, through its Participant,
to [Tender/Remarketing] Agent, and shall effect delivery of such Securities by causing the Direct Participant to
transfer the Participant's interest in the Securities, on DTC's records, to [Tender/Remarketing] Agent.  The
requirement for physical delivery of Securities in connection with an optional tender or a mandatory purchase will
be deemed satisfied when the ownership rights in the Securities are transferred by Direct Participants on DTC's
records and followed by a book-entry credit of tendered Securities to [Tender/Remarketing] Agent's DTC account. 
 
10.
DTC may discontinue providing its services as depository with respect to the Securities at any time by giving
reasonable notice to the City or Agent.  Under such circumstances, in the event that a successor depository is not
obtained, Security certificates are required to be printed and delivered. 
 
11.
The City may decide to discontinue use of the system of book-entry-only transfers through DTC (or a successor
securities depository).  In that event, Security certificates will be printed and delivered to DTC. 
 
12.
The information in this section concerning DTC and DTC's book-entry system has been obtained from sources
that the City believes to be reliable, but the City takes no responsibility for the accuracy thereof. 
C-2
263
APPENDIX D
FORM OF CONTINUING DISCLOSURE CERTIFICATE
(See following pages.)
D-1
264
QB\63289895.1
CONTINUING DISCLOSURE CERTIFICATE 
This Continuing Disclosure Certificate (the "Disclosure Certificate") is executed and 
delivered by the City of River Falls, Pierce and St. Croix Counties, Wisconsin (the "Issuer") in 
connection with the issuance of $6,250,000 General Obligation Corporate Purpose Bonds, Series 
2020A, dated June 30, 2020 (the "Securities").  The Securities are being issued pursuant to 
resolutions adopted on April 28, 2020 and June 9, 2020 (collectively, the "Resolution") and 
delivered to _____________________________ (the "Purchaser") on the date hereof.  Pursuant 
to the Resolution, the Issuer has covenanted and agreed to provide continuing disclosure of 
certain financial information and operating data and timely notices of the occurrence of certain 
events.  In addition, the Issuer hereby specifically covenants and agrees as follows: 
Section 1(a).  Purpose of the Disclosure Certificate.  This Disclosure Certificate is being 
executed and delivered by the Issuer for the benefit of the holders of the Securities in order to 
assist the Participating Underwriters within the meaning of the Rule (defined herein) in 
complying with SEC Rule 15c2-12(b)(5).  References in this Disclosure Certificate to holders of 
the Securities shall include the beneficial owners of the Securities.  This Disclosure Certificate 
constitutes the written Undertaking required by the Rule. 
Section 1(b).  Filing Requirements.  Any filing under this Disclosure Certificate must be 
made solely by transmitting such filing to the MSRB (defined herein) through the Electronic 
Municipal Market Access ("EMMA") System at www.emma.msrb.org in the format prescribed 
by the MSRB.  All documents provided to the MSRB shall be accompanied by the identifying 
information prescribed by the MSRB. 
Section 2.  Definitions.  In addition to the defined terms set forth in the Resolution, which 
apply to any capitalized term used in this Disclosure Certificate unless otherwise defined in this 
Section, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings: 
"Annual Report" means any annual report provided by the Issuer pursuant to, and as 
described in, Sections 3 and 4 of this Disclosure Certificate. 
"Audited Financial Statements" means the Issuer's annual financial statements, which are 
currently prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for 
governmental units as prescribed by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) and 
which the Issuer intends to continue to prepare in substantially the same form. 
"Final Official Statement" means the Final Official Statement dated June 10, 2020 
delivered in connection with the Securities, which is available from the MSRB. 
"Financial Obligation" means a (i) debt obligation; (ii) derivative instrument entered into 
in connection with, or pledged as security or a source of payment for, an existing or planned debt 
obligation; or (iii) guarantee of (i) or (ii). The term Financial Obligation shall not include 
municipal securities as to which a final official statement has been provided to the MSRB 
consistent with the Rule.  
D-2
265
QB\63289895.1
 
 
 
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Issuer. 
 
"Governing Body" means the Common Council of the Issuer or such other body as may 
hereafter be the chief legislative body of the Issuer. 
 
"Issuer" means the City of River Falls, Pierce and St. Croix Counties, Wisconsin, which 
is the obligated person with respect to the Securities. 
 
"Issuer Contact" means the Finance Director of the Issuer who can be contacted at 222 
Lewis Street, River Falls, Wisconsin 54022, phone (715) 425-0900, fax (715) 425-0915. 
 
"Listed Event" means any of the events listed in Section 5(a) of this Disclosure 
Certificate. 
 
"MSRB" means the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. 
 
"Participating Underwriter" means any of the original underwriter(s) of the Securities 
(including the Purchaser) required to comply with the Rule in connection with the offering of the 
Securities. 
 
"Rule" means SEC Rule 15c2-12(b)(5) promulgated by the SEC under the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as the same may be amended from time to time, and official 
interpretations thereof. 
 
"SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 
Section 3.  Provision of Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements. 
 
(a) 
The Issuer shall, not later than 365 days after the end of the Fiscal Year, 
commencing with the year ended December 31, 2019, provide the MSRB with an Annual Report 
filed in accordance with Section 1(b) of this Disclosure Certificate and which is consistent with 
the requirements of Section 4 of this Disclosure Certificate.  The Annual Report may be 
submitted as a single document or as separate documents comprising a package, and may cross-
reference other information as provided in Section 4 of this Disclosure Certificate; provided that 
the Audited Financial Statements of the Issuer may be submitted separately from the balance of 
the Annual Report and that, if Audited Financial Statements are not available within 365 days 
after the end of the Fiscal Year, unaudited financial information will be provided, and Audited 
Financial Statements will be submitted to the MSRB when and if available. 
 
(b) 
If the Issuer is unable or fails to provide to the MSRB an Annual Report by the 
date required in subsection (a), the Issuer shall send in a timely manner a notice of that fact to the 
MSRB in the format prescribed by the MSRB, as described in Section 1(b) of this Disclosure 
Certificate. 
 
Section 4.  Content of Annual Report.  The Issuer's Annual Report shall contain or 
incorporate by reference the Audited Financial Statements and updates of the following sections 
D-3
266
QB\63289895.1
 
 
 
of the Final Official Statement to the extent such financial information and operating data are not 
included in the Audited Financial Statements: 
 
1.  
DEBT - Direct Debt 
2.  
DEBT - Debt Limit 
3.  
VALUATIONS - Current Property Valuations 
4.  
TAX LEVIES AND COLLECTIONS - Tax Levies and Collections 
 
Any or all of the items listed above may be incorporated by reference from other 
documents, including official statements of debt issues of the Issuer or related public entities, 
which are available to the public on the MSRB’s Internet website or filed with the SEC.  The 
Issuer shall clearly identify each such other document so incorporated by reference. 
 
Section 5.  Reporting of Listed Events. 
 
(a) 
This Section 5 shall govern the giving of notices of the occurrence of any of the 
following events with respect to the Securities: 
 
1. 
Principal and interest payment delinquencies; 
 
2. 
Non-payment related defaults, if material; 
 
3. 
Unscheduled draws on debt service reserves reflecting financial difficulties; 
 
4. 
Unscheduled draws on credit enhancements reflecting financial difficulties; 
 
5. 
Substitution of credit or liquidity providers, or their failure to perform; 
 
6. 
Adverse tax opinions, the issuance by the Internal Revenue Service of proposed 
or final determinations of taxability, Notices of Proposed Issue (IRS Form 5701-
TEB) or other material notices or determinations with respect to the tax status of 
the Securities, or other material events affecting the tax status of the Securities;  
 
7. 
Modification to rights of holders of the Securities, if material; 
 
8. 
Securities calls, if material, and tender offers; 
 
9. 
Defeasances; 
 
10. 
Release, substitution or sale of property securing repayment of the Securities, if 
material; 
 
11. 
Rating changes; 
 
12. 
Bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar event of the Issuer; 
 
D-4
267
QB\63289895.1
 
 
 
13.  
The consummation of a merger, consolidation, or acquisition involving the Issuer 
or the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer, other than in the 
ordinary course of business, the entry into a definitive agreement to undertake 
such an action or the termination of a definitive agreement relating to any such 
actions, other than pursuant to its terms, if material; 
 
14. 
Appointment of a successor or additional trustee or the change of name of a 
trustee, if material; 
 
15. 
Incurrence of a Financial Obligation of the Issuer, if material, or agreement to 
covenants, events of default, remedies, priority rights, or other similar terms of a 
Financial Obligation of the Issuer, any of which affect holders of the Securities, if 
material; and 
 
16. 
Default, event of acceleration, termination event, modification of terms, or other 
similar events under the terms of a Financial Obligation of the Issuer, any of 
which reflect financial difficulties.  
 
For the purposes of the event identified in subsection (a)12. above, the event is 
considered to occur when any of the following occur:  the appointment of a receiver, fiscal agent 
or similar officer for the Issuer  in a proceeding under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or in any other 
proceeding under state or federal law in which a court or governmental authority has assumed 
jurisdiction over substantially all of the assets or business of the Issuer, or if such jurisdiction has 
been assumed by leaving the existing governing body and officials or officers in possession but 
subject to the supervision and orders of a court or governmental authority, or the entry of an 
order confirming a plan of reorganization, arrangement or liquidation by a court or governmental 
authority having supervision or jurisdiction over substantially all of the assets or business of the 
Issuer. 
 
(b) 
When a Listed Event occurs, the Issuer shall, in a timely manner not in excess of 
ten business days after the occurrence of the Listed Event, file a notice of such occurrence with 
the MSRB.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, notice of Listed Events described in subsections (a) 
(8) and (9) need not be given under this subsection any earlier than the notice (if any) of the 
underlying event is given to holders of affected Securities pursuant to the Resolution. 
 
(c) 
Unless otherwise required by law, the Issuer shall submit the information in the 
format prescribed by the MSRB, as described in Section 1(b) of this Disclosure Certificate. 
 
Section 6.  Termination of Reporting Obligation.  The Issuer's obligations under the 
Resolution and this Disclosure Certificate shall terminate upon the legal defeasance, prior 
redemption or payment in full of all the Securities. 
 
Section 7.  Issuer Contact; Agent.  Information may be obtained from the Issuer Contact.  
Additionally, the Issuer may, from time to time, appoint or engage a dissemination agent to assist 
it in carrying out its obligations under the Resolution and this Disclosure Certificate, and may 
discharge any such agent, with or without appointing a successor dissemination agent.   
D-5
268
QB\63289895.1
 
 
 
 
Section 8.  Amendment; Waiver.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Resolution 
or this Disclosure Certificate, the Issuer may amend this Disclosure Certificate, and any 
provision of this Disclosure Certificate may be waived, if the following conditions are met: 
 
(a)(i)   The amendment or waiver is made in connection with a change in circumstances 
that arises from a change in legal requirements, change in law, or change in the identity, nature, 
or status of the Issuer, or the type of business conducted; or 
 
    (ii)   This Disclosure Certificate, as amended or waived, would have complied with the 
requirements of the Rule at the time of the primary offering, after taking into account any 
amendments or interpretations of the Rule, as well as any change in circumstances; and 
 
(b)   
The amendment or waiver does not materially impair the interests of beneficial 
owners of the Securities, as determined and certified to the Issuer by an underwriter, financial 
advisor, bond counsel or trustee. 
 
In the event this Disclosure Certificate is amended for any reason other than to cure any 
ambiguities, inconsistencies, or typographical errors that may be contained herein, the Issuer 
agrees the next Annual Report it submits after such amendment shall include an explanation of 
the reasons for the amendment and the impact of the change, if any, on the type of financial 
statements or operating data being provided. 
 
If the amendment concerns the accounting principles to be followed in preparing 
financial statements, then the Issuer agrees that it will give an event notice and that the next 
Annual Report it submits after such amendment will include a comparison between financial 
statements or information prepared on the basis of the new accounting principles and those 
prepared on the basis of the former accounting principles. 
 
Section 9.  Additional Information.  Nothing in this Disclosure Certificate shall be 
deemed to prevent the Issuer from disseminating any other information, using the means of 
dissemination set forth in this Disclosure Certificate or any other means of communication, or 
including any other information in any Annual Report or notice of occurrence of a Listed Event, 
in addition to that which is required by this Disclosure Certificate.  If the Issuer chooses to 
include any information in any Annual Report or notice of occurrence of a Listed Event in 
addition to that which is specifically required by this Disclosure Certificate, the Issuer shall have 
no obligation under this Disclosure Certificate to update such information or include it in any 
future Annual Report or notice of occurrence of a Listed Event. 
 
Section 10.  Default.  (a)  Except as described in the Final Official Statement, in the 
previous five years, the Issuer has not failed to comply in all material respects with any previous 
undertakings under the Rule to provide annual reports or notices of events. 
 
(b)   
In the event of a failure of the Issuer to comply with any provision of this 
Disclosure Certificate any holder of the Securities may take such actions as may be necessary 
and appropriate, including seeking mandate or specific performance by court order, to cause the 
D-6
269
QB\63289895.1
 
 
 
Issuer to comply with its obligations under the Resolution and this Disclosure Certificate.  A 
default under this Disclosure Certificate shall not be deemed an event of default with respect to 
the Securities and the sole remedy under this Disclosure Certificate in the event of any failure of 
the Issuer to comply with this Disclosure Certificate shall be an action to compel performance. 
 
Section 11.  Beneficiaries.  This Disclosure Certificate shall inure solely to the benefit of 
the Issuer, the Participating Underwriters and holders from time to time of the Securities, and 
shall create no rights in any other person or entity. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have executed this Certificate in our official capacities 
effective the 30th day of June, 2020. 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Danial H. Toland 
Mayor 
(SEAL) 
_____________________________ 
Amy White 
City Clerk 
D-7
270
APPENDIX E
NOTICE OF SALE
$6,250,000* GENERAL OBLIGATION CORPORATE PURPOSE BONDS, SERIES 2020A
CITY OF RIVER FALLS, WISCONSIN
Bids for the purchase of $6,250,000* General Obligation Corporate Purpose Bonds, Series 2020A (the "Bonds") of
the City of River Falls, Wisconsin (the "City") will be received at the offices of Ehlers and Associates, Inc.
("Ehlers"), 3060 Centre Pointe Drive, Roseville, Minnesota 55113-1105, municipal advisors to the City, until 10:00
A.M., Central Time, and ELECTRONIC PROPOSALS will be received via PARITY, in the manner described
below, until 10:00 A.M. Central Time, on June 9, 2020, at which time they will be opened, read and tabulated.  The
bids will be presented to the Common Council for consideration for award by resolution at a meeting to be held at
6:30 P.M., Central Time, on the same date.  The bid offering to purchase the Bonds upon the terms specified herein
and most favorable to the City will be accepted unless all bids are rejected.
PURPOSE
The Bonds of the City are authorized pursuant to Section 67.04, Wisconsin Statutes, for the public purposes of paying
the cost of a fire engine, constructing a police facility and current refunding  certain outstanding general obligations
of the City as more fully described herein.  The Bonds are general obligations of the City, and all taxable property
in the City is subject to the levy of a tax to pay the principal of and interest on the Bonds as they become due which
tax may, under current law, be levied without limitation as to rate or amount. 
DATES AND MATURITIES
The Bonds will be dated June 30, 2020, will be issued as fully registered Bonds in the denomination of $5,000 each,
or any integral multiple thereof, and will mature on March 1 as follows:
Year
Amount*
Year
Amount*
Year
Amount*
2021
$80,000
2028
$370,000
2035
$330,000
2022
345,000
2029
380,000
2036
275,000
2023
350,000
2030
385,000
2037
285,000
2024
355,000
2031
395,000
2038
290,000
2025
360,000
2032
310,000
2039
190,000
2026
360,000
2033
310,000
2040
195,000
2027
365,000
2034
320,000
ADJUSTMENT OPTION
* The City reserves the right to increase or decrease the principal amount of the Bonds on the day of sale, in
increments of $5,000 each.  Increases or decreases may be made in any maturity.  If any principal amounts are
adjusted, the purchase price proposed will be adjusted to maintain the same gross spread per $1,000. 
TERM BOND OPTION
Bids for the Bonds may contain a maturity schedule providing for any combination of serial bonds and term bonds,
subject to mandatory redemption, so long as the amount of principal maturing or subject to mandatory redemption
in each year conforms to the maturity schedule set forth above.  All dates are inclusive.
  
E-1
271
INTEREST PAYMENT DATES AND RATES
Interest will be payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing March 1, 2021, to the registered
owners of the Bonds appearing of record in the bond register as of the close of business on the 15th day (whether or
not a business day) of the immediately preceding month.  Interest will be computed upon the basis of a 360-day year
of twelve 30-day months and will be rounded pursuant to rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.  All
Bonds of the same maturity must bear interest from date of issue until paid at a single, uniform rate.   Each rate must
be expressed in an integral multiple of 5/100 or 1/8 of 1%.   
BOOK-ENTRY-ONLY FORMAT
Unless otherwise specified by the purchaser, the Bonds will be designated in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee
for The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York ("DTC").  DTC will act as securities depository for the
Bonds, and will be responsible for maintaining a book-entry system for recording the interests of its participants and
the transfers of interests between its participants.  The participants will be responsible for maintaining records
regarding the beneficial interests of the individual purchasers of the Bonds.  So long as Cede & Co. is the registered
owner of the Bonds, all payments of principal and interest will be made to the depository which, in turn, will be
obligated to remit such payments to its participants for subsequent disbursement to the beneficial owners of the
Bonds.
PAYING AGENT
The City has selected U.S. Bank National Association, St. Paul, Minnesota, to act as paying agent (the "Paying
Agent").  The City will pay the charges for Paying Agent services.  The City reserves the right to remove the Paying
Agent and to appoint a successor.
OPTIONAL REDEMPTION
At the option of the City, the Bonds maturing on or after March 1, 2029 shall be subject to optional redemption prior
to maturity on March 1, 2028 or any date thereafter, at a price of par plus accrued interest.
Redemption may be in whole or in part of the Bonds subject to prepayment.  If redemption is in part, the selection
of the amounts and maturities of the Bonds to be redeemed shall be at the discretion of the City.  If only part of the
Bonds having a common maturity date are called for redemption, then the City or Paying Agent, if any, will notify
DTC of the particular amount of such maturity to be redeemed.  DTC will determine by lot the amount of each
participant's interest in such maturity to be redeemed and each participant will then select by lot the beneficial
ownership interest in such maturity to be redeemed.
Notice of such call shall be given by sending a notice by registered or certified mail, facsimile or electronic
transmission, overnight delivery service or in any other manner required by DTC, not less than 30 days nor more than
60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption to the registered owner of each Bond to be redeemed at the address
shown on the registration books.
DELIVERY
On or about June 30, 2020, the Bonds will be delivered without cost to the winning bidder at DTC.  On the day of
closing, the City will furnish to the winning bidder the opinion of bond counsel hereinafter described, an arbitrage
certification, and certificates verifying that no litigation in any manner questioning the validity of the Bonds is then
pending or, to the best knowledge of officers of the City, threatened.  Payment for the Bonds must be received by the
City at its designated depository on the date of closing in immediately available funds.
E-2
272
LEGAL MATTERS
An opinion as to the validity of the Bonds and the exemption from federal taxation of the interest thereon will be
furnished by Quarles & Brady LLP,  Bond Counsel to the City, and will be available at the time of delivery of the
Bonds.  The legal opinion will be issued on the basis of existing law and will state that the Bonds are valid and
binding general obligations of the City; provided that the rights of the owners of the Bonds and the enforceability
of the Bonds may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, and other similar laws affecting
creditors' rights and by equitable principles (which may be applied in either a legal or equitable proceeding).  (See 
?FORM OF LEGAL OPINION" found in Appendix B of the Preliminary Official Statement.)
Quarles & Brady LLP has also been retained by the City to serve as Disclosure Counsel to the City with respect to
the Bonds.  Although, as Disclosure Counsel to the City, Quarles & Brady LLP has assisted the City with certain
disclosure matters, Quarles & Brady LLP has not undertaken to independently verify the accuracy, completeness or
sufficiency of this Official Statement or other offering material relating to the Bonds and assumes no responsibility
whatsoever nor shall have any liability to any other party for the statements or information contained or incorporated
by reference in this Official Statement.  Further, Quarles & Brady LLP makes no representation as to the suitability
of the Bonds for any investor.
SUBMISSION OF BIDS
Bids must not be for less than $6,156,250 plus accrued interest on the principal sum of $6,250,000 from date of
original issue of the Bonds to date of delivery.  Prior to the time established above for the opening of bids, interested
parties may submit a bid as follows:
1)
Electronically to bondsale@ehlers-inc.com; or
2) 
Electronically via PARITY in accordance with this Notice of Sale until 10:00 A.M. Central Time, but no
bid will be received after the time for receiving bids specified above.  To the extent any instructions or
directions set forth in PARITY conflict with this Notice of Sale, the terms of this Notice of Sale shall
control.  For further information about PARITY, potential bidders may contact Ehlers or i-Deal LLC at 1359
Broadway, 2nd Floor, New York, New York 10018, Telephone (212) 849-5021.
Bids must be submitted to Ehlers via one of the methods described above and must be received prior to the time
established above for the opening of bids.  Each bid must be unconditional except as to legality.  Neither the City nor
Ehlers shall be responsible for any failure to receive a facsimile submission.
A good faith deposit ("Deposit") in the amount of $125,000 shall be made by the winning bidder by wire
transfer of funds.  Such Deposit shall be received by Ehlers no later than two hours after the bid opening time. 
Wire transfer instructions will be provided to the winning bidder by Ehlers after the tabulation of bids.  The
City reserves the right to award the Bonds to a winning bidder whose wire transfer is initiated but not received by
such time provided that such winning bidder’s federal wire reference number has been received by such time.  In the
event the Deposit is not received as provided above, the  City may award the Bonds to the bidder submitting the next
best bid provided such bidder agrees to such award.  The Deposit will be retained by the City as liquidated damages
if the bid is accepted and the Purchaser fails to comply therewith. 
The  City and the winning bidder who chooses to so wire the Deposit hereby agree irrevocably that Ehlers shall be
the escrow holder of the Deposit wired to such account subject only to these conditions and duties: 1) All income
earned thereon shall be retained by the escrow holder as payment for its expenses; 2) If the bid is not accepted, Ehlers
shall, at its expense, promptly return the Deposit amount to the winning bidder; 3) If the bid is accepted, the Deposit
shall be returned to the winning bidder at the closing;  4) Ehlers shall bear all costs of maintaining the escrow account
and returning the funds to the winning bidder; 5) Ehlers shall not be an insurer of the Deposit amount and shall have
no liability hereunder except if it willfully fails to perform or recklessly disregards, its duties specified herein; and
6) FDIC insurance on deposits within the escrow account shall be limited to $250,000 per bidder.
E-3
273
No bid can be withdrawn after the time set for receiving bids unless the meeting of the City scheduled for award of
the Bonds is adjourned, recessed, or continued to another date without award of the Bonds having been made.
AWARD
The Bonds will be awarded to the bidder offering the lowest interest rate to be determined on a True Interest Cost
(TIC) basis.  The City’s computation of the interest rate of each bid, in accordance with customary practice, will be
controlling.  In the event of a tie, the sale of the Bonds will be awarded by lot.  The City reserves the right to reject
any and all bids and to waive any informality in any bid.
BOND INSURANCE
If the Bonds are qualified for any bond insurance policy, the purchase of such policy shall be at the sole option and
expense of the winning bidder.  Any cost for such insurance policy is to be paid by the winning bidder, except that,
if the City requested and received a rating on the Bonds from a rating agency, the City will pay that rating fee.  Any
rating agency fees not requested by the City are the responsibility of the winning bidder.
Failure of the municipal bond insurer to issue the policy after the Bonds are awarded to the winning bidder shall not
constitute cause for failure or refusal by the winning bidder to accept delivery of the Bonds.
CUSIP NUMBERS
The City will assume no obligation for the assignment or printing of CUSIP numbers on the Bonds or for the
correctness of any numbers printed thereon, but will permit such numbers to be printed at the expense of the winning
bidder, if the winning bidder waives any delay in delivery occasioned thereby.
QUALIFIED TAX-EXEMPT OBLIGATIONS
The City will designate the Bonds as qualified tax-exempt obligations for purposes of Section 265(b)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
CONTINUING DISCLOSURE
In order to assist the Underwriters in complying with the provisions of Rule 15c2-12 promulgated by the Securities
and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the City will enter into an undertaking for the
benefit of the holders of the Bonds.  A description of the details and terms of the undertaking is set forth in Appendix
D of the Official Statement. 
NEW ISSUE PRICING
The winning bidder will be required to provide, in a timely manner, certain information necessary to compute the
yield on the Bonds pursuant to the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and to provide a
certificate which will be provided by Bond Counsel upon request.
(a)
The winning bidder shall assist the City in establishing the issue price of the Bonds and shall execute and
deliver to the City at closing an "issue price" or similar certificate satisfactory to Bond Counsel setting forth the
reasonably expected initial offering price to the public or the sales price or prices of the Bonds, together with the
supporting pricing wires or equivalent communications.  All actions to be taken by the City under this Notice of Sale
to establish the issue price of the Bonds may be taken on behalf of the City by the City’s municipal advisor identified
herein and any notice or report to be provided to the City may be provided to the City’s municipal advisor.
E-4
274
(b)
The City intends that the provisions of Treasury Regulation Section 1.148-1(f)(3)(i) (defining "competitive
sale" for purposes of establishing the issue price of the Bonds) will apply to the initial sale of the Bonds (the
"competitive sale requirements") because:
 
(1)
The City shall disseminate this Notice of Sale to potential underwriters in a manner that is
reasonably designed to reach potential investors;
(2)
all bidders shall have an equal opportunity to bid;
(3)
the City may receive bids from at least three underwriters of municipal bonds who have established
industry reputations for underwriting new issuances of municipal bonds; and
(4)
the City anticipates awarding the sale of the Bonds to the bidder who submits a firm offer to
purchase the Bonds at the highest price (or lowest interest cost), as set forth in this Notice of Sale.
Any bid submitted pursuant to this Notice of Sale shall be considered a firm offer for the purchase of the Bonds, as
specified in this bid.
(c)
If all of the requirements of a "competitive sale" are not satisfied, the City shall advise the winning bidder
of such fact prior to the time of award of the sale of the Bonds to the winning bidder.  In such event, any bid
submitted will not be subject to cancellation or withdrawal and the City agrees to use the rule selected by the winning
bidder on its bid form to determine the issue price for the Bonds.  On its bid form, each bidder must select one of the
following two rules for determining the issue price of the Bonds: (1) the first price at which 10% of a maturity of the
Bonds (the "10% test") is sold to the public as the issue price of that maturity or (2) the initial offering price to the
public as of the sale date as the issue price of each maturity of the Bonds (the "hold-the-offering-price rule").
(d)
If all of the requirements of a "competitive sale" are not satisfied and the winning bidder selects the hold-the-
offering-price rule, the winning bidder shall (i) confirm that the underwriters have offered or will offer the Bonds
to the public on or before the date of award at the offering price or prices (the "initial offering price"), or at the
corresponding yield or yields, set forth in the bid submitted by the winning bidder and (ii) agree, on behalf of the
underwriters participating in the purchase of the Bonds, that the underwriters will neither offer nor sell unsold Bonds
of any maturity to which the hold-the-offering-price rule shall apply to any person at a price that is higher than the
initial offering price to the public during the period starting on the sale date and ending on the earlier of the
following:
(1) the close of the fifth (5th) business day after the sale date; or
 
(2) the date on which the underwriters have sold at least 10% of that maturity of the Bonds to the public at
a price that is no higher than the initial offering price to the public.
The winning bidder will advise the City promptly after the close of the fifth (5th) business day after the sale whether
it has sold 10% of that maturity of the Bonds to the public at a price that is no higher than the initial offering price
to the public.
The City acknowledges that in making the representation set forth above, the winning bidder will rely on:
(i) the agreement of each underwriter to comply with requirements for establishing issue price of the Bonds,
including, but not limited to, its agreement to comply with the hold-the-price rule, if applicable to the Bonds, as set
forth in an agreement among underwriters and the related pricing wires,
(ii) in the event a selling group has been created in connection with the initial sale of the Bonds to the public,
the agreement of each dealer who is a member of the selling group to comply with the requirements for establishing
E-5
275
issue price of the Bonds, including, but not limited to, its agreement to comply with the hold-the-offering-price rule,
if applicable to the Bonds, as set forth in a selling group agreement and the related pricing wires, and
(iii) in the event that an underwriter or dealer who is a member of the selling group is a party to a third-party
distribution agreement that was employed in connection with the initial sale of the Bonds to the public, the agreement
of each broker-dealer that is party to such agreement to comply with the requirements for establishing issue price of
the Bonds, including, but not limited to, its agreement to comply with the hold-the-offering-price rule, if applicable
to the Bonds, as set forth in the third-party distribution agreement and the related pricing wires.  The City further
acknowledges that each underwriter shall be solely liable for its failure to comply with its agreement regarding the
requirements for establishing issue price rule of the Bonds, including, but not limited to, its agreement to comply with
the hold-the-offering-price rule, if applicable to the Bonds, and that no underwriter shall be liable for the failure of
any other underwriter, or of any dealer who is a member of a selling group, or of any broker-dealer that is a party to
a third-party distribution agreement to comply with its corresponding agreement to comply with the requirements for
establishing issue price of the Bonds, including, but not limited to, its agreement to comply with the hold-the-
offering-price rule as applicable to the Bonds. 
(e) 
If all of the requirements of a "competitive sale" are not satisfied and the winning bidder selects the 10% test,
the winning bidder agrees to promptly report to the City, Bond Counsel and Ehlers the prices at which the Bonds have
been sold to the public.  That reporting obligation shall continue, whether or not the closing date has occurred, until
either (i) all Bonds of that maturity have been sold or (ii) the 10% test has been satisfied as to each maturity of the
Bonds, provided that, the winning bidder’s reporting obligation after the Closing Date may be at reasonable periodic
intervals or otherwise upon request of the City or bond counsel. 
(f)
By submitting a bid, each bidder confirms that:
(i) any agreement among underwriters, any selling group agreement and each third-party distribution
agreement (to which the bidder is a party) relating to the initial sale of the Bonds to the public, together with the
related pricing wires, contains or will contain language obligating each underwriter, each dealer who is a member
of the selling group, and each broker-dealer that is party to such third-party distribution agreement, as applicable, to:
 (A) report the prices at which it sells to the public the unsold Bonds of each maturity allocated to it, whether
or not the Closing Date has occurred until either all securities of that maturity allocated to it have been sold or it is
notified by the winning bidder that either the 10% test has been satisfied as to the Bonds of that maturity, provided
that, the reporting obligation after the Closing Date may be at reasonable periodic intervals or otherwise upon request
of the City or bond counsel.
(B) comply with the hold-the-offering-price rule, if applicable, in each case if and for so long as directed by
the winning bidder and as set forth in the related pricing wires, and
(ii) any agreement among underwriters or selling group agreement  relating to the initial sale of the Bonds
to the public, together with the related pricing wires, contains or will contain language obligating each underwriter,
each dealer who is a member of the selling group and each broker dealer that is a party to a third-party distribution
agreement to be employed in connection with the initial sale of the Bonds to the public to require each broker-dealer
that is a party to such third-party distribution agreement to:
(A) to promptly notify the winning bidder of any sales of Bonds that, to its knowledge, are made to a
purchaser who is a related party to an underwriter participating in the initial sale of the Bonds to the public (each such
term being used as defined below), and 
(B) to acknowledge that, unless otherwise advised by the underwriter, dealer or broker-dealer, the winning
bidder shall assume that each order submitted by the underwriter, dealer or broker-dealer is a sale to the public.
E-6
276
(g)
Sales of any Bonds to any person that is a related party to an underwriter participating in the initial sale of
the Bonds to the public (each term being used as defined below) shall not constitute sales to the public for purposes
of this Notice of Sale.  Further, for purposes of this Notice of Sale:
(i)
"public" means any person other than an underwriter or a related party,
(ii)
"underwriter" means (A) any person that agrees pursuant to a written contract with the City (or with
the lead underwriter to form an underwriting syndicate) to participate in the initial sale of the Bonds
to the public and (B) any person that agrees pursuant to a written contract directly or indirectly with
a person described in clause (A) to participate in the initial sale of the Bonds to the public (including
a member of a selling group or a party to a third-party distribution agreement participating in the
initial sale of the Bonds to the public),
(iii)
a purchaser of any of the Bonds is a "related party" to an underwriter if the underwriter and the
purchaser are subject, directly or indirectly, to (A) more than 50% common ownership of the voting
power or the total value of their stock, if both entities are corporations (including direct ownership
by one corporation of another), (B) more than 50% common ownership of their capital interests or
profits interests, if both entities are partnerships (including direct ownership by one partnership of
another), or (C) more than 50% common ownership of the value of the outstanding stock of the
corporation or the capital interests or profit interests of the partnership, as applicable, if one entity
is a corporation and the other entity is a partnership (including direct ownership of the applicable
stock or interests by one entity of the other), and
(iv)
"sale date" means the date that the Bonds are awarded by the City to the winning bidder.
PRELIMINARY OFFICIAL STATEMENT
Bidders may obtain a copy of the Preliminary Official Statement relating to the Bonds  prior to the bid opening by
request from Ehlers at www.ehlers-inc.com by connecting to the Bond Sales link.  The Syndicate Manager will be
provided with an electronic copy of the Final Official Statement within seven business days of the bid acceptance. 
Up to 10 printed copies of the Final Official Statement will be provided upon request.  Additional copies of the Final
Official Statement will be available at a cost of $10.00 per copy.
Information for bidders and bid forms may be obtained from Ehlers at 3060 Centre Pointe Drive, Roseville,
Minnesota 55113-1105, Telephone (651) 697-8500.
By Order of the Common Council
Amy White, City Clerk 
City of River Falls, Wisconsin
E-7
277
278
BID FORM
The Common Council
June 9, 2020
City of River Falls, Wisconsin
RE:
$6,250,000* General Obligation Corporate Purpose Bonds, Series 2020A (the "Bonds")
DATED:
June 30, 2020
For all or none of the above Bonds, in accordance with the Notice of Sale and terms of the Global Book-Entry System (unless otherwise specified by the
Purchaser) as stated in this Official Statement, we will pay you $__________________ (not less than $6,156,250) plus accrued interest to date of delivery for
fully registered Bonds bearing interest rates and maturing in the stated years as follows:
% due
2021
% due
2028
% due
2035
% due
2022
% due
2029
% due
2036
% due
2023
% due
2030
% due
2037
% due
2024
% due
2031
% due
2038
% due
2025
% due
2032
% due
2039
% due
2026
% due
2033
% due
2040
% due
2027
% due
2034
* The City reserves the right to increase or decrease the principal amount of the Bonds on the day of sale, in increments of $5,000 each.  Increases or decreases
may be made in any maturity.  If any principal amounts are adjusted, the purchase price proposed will be adjusted to maintain the same gross spread per $1,000. 
All Bonds of the same maturity must bear interest from date of issue until paid at a single, uniform rate.  Each rate must be expressed in an integral multiple
of 5/100 or 1/8 of 1%.   
A good faith deposit ("Deposit") in the amount of $125,000 shall be made by the winning bidder by wire transfer of funds.  Such Deposit shall be
received by Ehlers no later than two hours after the bid opening time.  Wire transfer instructions will be provided to the winning bidder by Ehlers
after the tabulation of bids.  The City reserves the right to award the Bonds to a winning bidder whose wire transfer is initiated but not received by such time
provided that such winning bidder’s federal wire reference number has been received by such time.  In the event the Deposit is not received as provided above,
the  City may award the Bonds to the bidder submitting the next best bid provided such bidder agrees to such award.  The Deposit will be retained by the City
as liquidated damages if the bid is accepted and the Purchaser fails to comply therewith.  We agree to the conditions and duties of Ehlers and Associates, Inc.,
as escrow holder of the Deposit, pursuant to the Notice of Sale.  This bid is for prompt acceptance and is conditional upon delivery of said Bonds to The
Depository Trust Company, New York, New York, in accordance with the Notice of Sale.  Delivery is anticipated to be on or about June 30, 2020. 
This bid is subject to the City’s agreement to enter into a written undertaking to provide continuing disclosure under Rule 15c2-12 promulgated by the Securities
and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as described in the Preliminary Official Statement for the Bonds.
We have received and reviewed the Official Statement, and any addenda thereto, and have submitted our requests for additional information or corrections to
the Final Official Statement.  As Syndicate Manager, we agree to provide the City with the reoffering price of the Bonds within 24 hours of the bid acceptance.
This bid is a firm offer for the purchase of the Bonds identified in the Notice of Sale, on the terms set forth in this bid form and the Notice of Sale, and is not
subject to any conditions, except as permitted by the Notice of Sale.  
By submitting this bid, we confirm that we are an underwriter and have an established industry reputation for underwriting new issuances of municipal bonds. 
 YES: ____   NO: ____.
If the competitive sale requirements are not met, we elect to use the (circle one): 10% test / hold-the-offering-price rule to determine the issue price of the Bonds.
Account Manager:
By:
Account Members:
Award will be on a true interest cost basis.  According to our computations (the correct computation being controlling in the award), the total dollar interest
cost (including any discount or less any premium) computed from June 30, 2020 of the above bid is $_______________and the true interest cost (TIC) is
__________%.
The foregoing offer is hereby accepted by and on behalf of the Common Council of the City of River Falls, Wisconsin, on June 9, 2020.
By:
By:
Title:
Title:
279
QB\63289732.1
RESOLUTION NO. ______
RESOLUTION AWARDING THE SALE OF 
$6,250,000 GENERAL OBLIGATION CORPORATE 
PURPOSE BONDS, SERIES 2020A
WHEREAS, on April 28, 2020, the Common Council of the City of River Falls, Pierce 
and St. Croix Counties, Wisconsin (the "City") adopted initial resolutions (the "Initial 
Resolutions") authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds for the following public 
purposes, in the following not to exceed amounts: $3,085,000 for a police facility; $665,000 for a 
fire engine (collectively, the "Project" and the "Project Initial Resolutions"); and $2,500,000 for 
refunding obligations of the City (the "Refunding"); 
WHEREAS, the Common Council hereby finds and determines that the Project is within 
the City's power to undertake and therefore serves a "public purpose" as that term is defined in 
Section 67.04(1)(b), Wisconsin Statutes; 
WHEREAS, the obligations to be refunded are the State Trust Fund Loan, dated January 
9, 2017 (the "STFL") and the General Obligation Promissory Note, dated January 25, 2019 (the 
"2019 Note")(collectively, the "Refunded Obligations"); 
WHEREAS, the Common Council deems it to be necessary, desirable and in the best 
interest of the City to refund the Refunded Obligations for the purposes of achieving debt service 
savings and restructuring its outstanding indebtedness; 
WHEREAS, the City is authorized by the provisions of Section 67.04, Wisconsin 
Statutes, to borrow money and issue general obligation bonds for such public purposes; and 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of Section 67.05, Wisconsin Statutes, within 15 
days following the adoption of the Project Initial Resolutions, the City Clerk caused a notice to 
electors to be published in the Star Observer, stating the purpose and maximum principal amount 
of the bond issues authorized by the Project Initial Resolutions and describing the opportunity 
and procedure for submitting a petition requesting a referendum on the bond issues, relating to 
the Project, authorized by the Project Initial Resolutions; 
WHEREAS, no petition for referendum was filed with the City Clerk, and the time to file 
such a petition has expired; 
WHEREAS, on April 28, 2020, the Common Council of the City also adopted a 
resolution (the "Set Sale Resolution"), providing that the general obligation bond issues 
authorized by the Initial Resolutions be combined, issued and sold as a single issue of 
bonds designated as "General Obligation Corporate Purpose Bonds, Series 2020A" (the 
"Bonds") for the purpose of paying the cost of the Project and the Refunding; 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Set Sale Resolution, the City has directed Ehlers & 
Associates, Inc. ("Ehlers") to take the steps necessary to sell the Bonds to pay the cost of the 
Project and the Refunding; 
280
QB\63289732.1
-2-
WHEREAS, Ehlers, in consultation with the officials of the City, prepared a Notice of 
Sale (a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by this reference) 
setting forth the details of and the bid requirements for the Bonds and indicating that the Bonds 
would be offered for public sale on June 9, 2020; 
WHEREAS, the City Clerk (in consultation with Ehlers) caused a form of notice of the 
sale to be published and/or announced and caused the Notice of Sale to be distributed to potential 
bidders offering the Bonds for public sale June 9, 2020; 
WHEREAS, the City has duly received bids for the Bonds as described on the Bid 
Tabulation attached hereto as Exhibit B and incorporated herein by this reference (the "Bid 
Tabulation"); 
WHEREAS, it has been determined that the bid proposal (the "Proposal") submitted by 
the financial institution listed first on the Bid Tabulation fully complies with the bid 
requirements set forth in the Notice of Sale and is deemed to be the most advantageous to the 
City.  Ehlers has recommended that the City accept the Proposal.  A copy of said Proposal 
submitted by such institution (the "Purchaser") is attached hereto as Exhibit C and incorporated 
herein by this reference; and
WHEREAS, the Common Council now deems it necessary, desirable and in the best 
interest of the City that the Bonds be issued in the aggregate principal amount of $___________ 
for the following purposes and in the following amounts: $__________________ for a police 
facility; $__________________ for a fire engine and $__________________ for the Refunding. 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Common Council of the City that:
Section 1.  Ratification of the Notice of Sale and Offering Materials.  The Common 
Council hereby ratifies and approves the details of the Bonds set forth in Exhibit A attached 
hereto as and for the details of the Bonds.  The Notice of Sale and any other offering materials 
prepared and circulated by Ehlers are hereby ratified and approved in all respects.  All actions 
taken by officers of the City and Ehlers in connection with the preparation and distribution of the 
Notice of Sale, and any other offering materials are hereby ratified and approved in all respects.
Section 2A.  Authorization and Award of the Bonds.  For the purpose of paying the cost 
of the Project and the Refunding, there shall be borrowed pursuant to Section 67.04, Wisconsin 
Statutes, the principal sum of SIX MILLION TWO HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND 
DOLLARS ($6,250,000) from the Purchaser in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
Proposal.  The Proposal of the Purchaser offering to purchase the Bonds for the sum set forth on 
the Proposal, plus accrued interest to the date of delivery, resulting in a true interest cost as set 
forth on the Proposal, is hereby accepted.  The Mayor and City Clerk or other appropriate 
officers of the City are authorized and directed to execute an acceptance of the Proposal on 
behalf of the City.  The good faith deposit of the Purchaser shall be retained by the City
Treasurer and applied in accordance with the Notice of Sale, and any good faith deposits 
submitted by unsuccessful bidders shall be promptly returned.  The Bonds shall bear interest at 
the rates set forth on the Proposal.
281
QB\63289732.1
-3-
Section 3.  Terms of the Bonds.  The Bonds shall be designated "General Obligation 
Corporate Purpose Bonds, Series 2020A"; shall be issued in the aggregate principal amount of 
$6,250,000; shall be dated June 30, 2020; shall be in the denomination of $5,000 or any integral 
multiple thereof; shall be numbered R-1 and upward; and shall bear interest at the rates per 
annum and mature on March 1 of each year, in the years and principal amounts as set forth on 
the Pricing Summary attached hereto as Exhibit D-1 and incorporated herein by this reference.  
Interest shall be payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year commencing 
on March 1, 2021.  Interest shall be computed upon the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day 
months and will be rounded pursuant to the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.  
The schedule of principal and interest payments due on the Bonds is set forth on the Debt 
Service Schedule attached hereto as Exhibit D-2 and incorporated herein by this reference (the 
"Schedule").
Section 3A.  Designation of Maturities.  For purposes of State law, the Bonds are 
designated as being issued to pay and discharge the debts incurred by the City through the 
issuance of the Refunded Obligations in the order in which those debts were incurred, so that the 
Bonds of the earliest maturities are considered to be issued to discharge the debts which were 
incurred first.
Section 4.  Redemption Provisions.  The Bonds maturing on March 1, 2029 and thereafter 
are subject to redemption prior to maturity, at the option of the City, on March 1, 2028 or on any 
date thereafter.  Said Bonds are redeemable as a whole or in part, and if in part, from maturities 
selected by the City, and within each maturity by lot, at the principal amount thereof, plus 
accrued interest to the date of redemption. [If the Proposal specifies that any of the Bonds are 
subject to mandatory redemption, the terms of such mandatory redemption shall be set forth on 
an attachment hereto as Exhibit MRP and incorporated herein by this reference.  Upon the 
optional redemption of any of the Bonds subject to mandatory redemption, the principal amount 
of such Bonds so redeemed shall be credited against the mandatory redemption payments 
established in Exhibit MRP for such Bonds in such manner as the City shall direct.]
Section 5.  Form of the Bonds.  The Bonds shall be issued in registered form and shall be 
executed and delivered in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit E and incorporated 
herein by this reference.
Section 6.  Tax Provisions.
(A)  Direct Annual Irrepealable Tax Levy.  For the purpose of paying the 
principal of and interest on the Bonds as the same becomes due, the full faith, credit and 
resources of the City are hereby irrevocably pledged, and there is hereby levied upon all of the 
taxable property of the City a direct annual irrepealable tax in the years 2020 through 2039 for 
the payments due in the years 2021 through 2040 in the amounts set forth on the Schedule.
(B)  Tax Collection.  So long as any part of the principal of or interest on the 
Bonds remains unpaid, the City shall be and continue without power to repeal such levy or 
obstruct the collection of said tax until all such payments have been made or provided for.  After 
282
QB\63289732.1
-4-
the issuance of the Bonds, said tax shall be, from year to year, carried onto the tax roll of the City 
and collected in addition to all other taxes and in the same manner and at the same time as other 
taxes of the City for said years are collected, except that the amount of tax carried onto the tax 
roll may be reduced in any year by the amount of any surplus money in the Debt Service Fund 
Account created below.
(C)  Additional Funds.  If at any time there shall be on hand insufficient funds 
from the aforesaid tax levy to meet principal and/or interest payments on said Bonds when due, 
the requisite amounts shall be paid from other funds of the City then available, which sums shall 
be replaced upon the collection of the taxes herein levied.
Section 7.  Segregated Debt Service Fund Account.
(A)  Creation and Deposits. There be and there hereby is established in the 
treasury of the City, if one has not already been created, a debt service fund, separate and distinct 
from every other fund, which shall be maintained in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles.  Debt service or sinking funds established for obligations previously 
issued by the City may be considered as separate and distinct accounts within the debt service 
fund.
Within the debt service fund, there hereby is established a separate and distinct account 
designated as the "Debt Service Fund Account for General Obligation Corporate Purpose Bonds, 
Series 2020A" (the "Debt Service Fund Account") and such account shall be maintained until the 
indebtedness evidenced by the Bonds is fully paid or otherwise extinguished.  There shall be 
deposited into the Debt Service Fund Account (i) all accrued interest received by the City at the 
time of delivery of and payment for the Bonds; (ii) any premium not used for the Refunding 
which may be received by the City above the par value of the Bonds and accrued interest 
thereon; (iii) all money raised by the taxes herein levied and any amounts appropriated for the 
specific purpose of meeting principal of and interest on the Bonds when due; (iv) such other 
sums as may be necessary at any time to pay principal of and interest on the Bonds when due; (v) 
surplus monies in the Borrowed Money Fund as specified below; and (vi) such further deposits 
as may be required by Section 67.11, Wisconsin Statutes.
(B)  Use and Investment.  No money shall be withdrawn from the Debt Service 
Fund Account and appropriated for any purpose other than the payment of principal of and 
interest on the Bonds until all such principal and interest has been paid in full and the Bonds
canceled; provided (i) the funds to provide for each payment of principal of and interest on the 
Bonds prior to the scheduled receipt of taxes from the next succeeding tax collection may be 
invested in direct obligations of the United States of America maturing in time to make such 
payments when they are due or in other investments permitted by law; and (ii) any funds over 
and above the amount of such principal and interest payments on the Bonds may be used to 
reduce the next succeeding tax levy, or may, at the option of the City, be invested by purchasing 
the Bonds as permitted by and subject to Section 67.11(2)(a), Wisconsin Statutes, or in permitted 
municipal investments under the pertinent provisions of the Wisconsin Statutes ("Permitted 
Investments"), which investments shall continue to be a part of the Debt Service Fund Account.  
Any investment of the Debt Service Fund Account shall at all times conform with the provisions 
283
QB\63289732.1
-5-
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and any applicable Treasury 
Regulations (the "Regulations").
(C)  Remaining Monies.  When all of the Bonds have been paid in full and 
canceled, and all Permitted Investments disposed of, any money remaining in the Debt Service 
Fund Account shall be transferred and deposited in the general fund of the City, unless the 
Common Council directs otherwise.
Section 8.  Proceeds of the Bonds; Segregated Borrowed Money Fund.  The proceeds of 
the Bonds (the "Bond Proceeds") (other than any premium not used for the Refunding and 
accrued interest which must be paid at the time of the delivery of the Bonds into the Debt Service 
Fund Account created above) shall be deposited into a special fund (the "Borrowed Money 
Fund") separate and distinct from all other funds of the City and disbursed solely for the purpose 
or purposes for which borrowed.  Monies in the Borrowed Money Fund may be temporarily 
invested in Permitted Investments.  Any monies, including any income from Permitted 
Investments, remaining in the Borrowed Money Fund after the purpose or purposes for which the 
Bonds have been issued have been accomplished, and, at any time, any monies as are not needed 
and which obviously thereafter cannot be needed for such purpose(s) shall be deposited in the 
Debt Service Fund Account.
Section 9.  No Arbitrage.  All investments made pursuant to this Resolution shall be 
Permitted Investments, but no such investment shall be made in such a manner as would cause 
the Bonds to be "arbitrage bonds" within the meaning of Section 148 of the Code or the 
Regulations and an officer of the City, charged with the responsibility for issuing the Bonds, 
shall certify as to facts, estimates, circumstances and reasonable expectations in existence on the 
date of delivery of the Bonds to the Purchaser which will permit the conclusion that the Bonds
are not "arbitrage bonds," within the meaning of the Code or Regulations.
Section 10.  Compliance with Federal Tax Laws.  (a)  The City represents and covenants 
that the projects financed by the Bonds and by the Refunded Obligations and the ownership, 
management and use of the projects will not cause the Bonds and the Refunded Obligations to be 
"private activity bonds" within the meaning of Section 141 of the Code.  The City further 
covenants that it shall comply with the provisions of the Code to the extent necessary to maintain 
the tax-exempt status of the interest on the Bonds including, if applicable, the rebate 
requirements of Section 148(f) of the Code.  The City further covenants that it will not take any 
action, omit to take any action or permit the taking or omission of any action within its control 
(including, without limitation, making or permitting any use of the proceeds of the Bonds) if 
taking, permitting or omitting to take such action would cause any of the Bonds to be an 
arbitrage bond or a private activity bond within the meaning of the Code or would otherwise 
cause interest on the Bonds to be included in the gross income of the recipients thereof for 
federal income tax purposes.  The City Clerk or other officer of the City charged with the 
responsibility of issuing the Bonds shall provide an appropriate certificate of the City certifying 
that the City can and covenanting that it will comply with the provisions of the Code and 
Regulations.
(b)
The City also covenants to use its best efforts to meet the requirements and 
restrictions of any different or additional federal legislation which may be made applicable to the 
284
QB\63289732.1
-6-
Bonds provided that in meeting such requirements the City will do so only to the extent 
consistent with the proceedings authorizing the Bonds and the laws of the State of Wisconsin and 
to the extent that there is a reasonable period of time in which to comply.
Section 11.  Designation as Qualified Tax-Exempt Obligations.  The Bonds are hereby 
designated as "qualified tax-exempt obligations" for purposes of Section 265 of the Code, 
relating to the ability of financial institutions to deduct from income for federal income tax 
purposes, interest expense that is allocable to carrying and acquiring tax-exempt obligations.  
Section 12.  Execution of the Bonds; Closing; Professional Services.  The Bonds shall be 
issued in printed form, executed on behalf of the City by the manual or facsimile signatures of 
the Mayor and City Clerk, authenticated, if required, by the Fiscal Agent (defined below), sealed 
with its official or corporate seal, if any, or a facsimile thereof, and delivered to the Purchaser 
upon payment to the City of the purchase price thereof, plus accrued interest to the date of 
delivery (the "Closing").  The facsimile signature of either of the officers executing the Bonds
may be imprinted on the Bonds in lieu of the manual signature of the officer but, unless the City 
has contracted with a fiscal agent to authenticate the Bonds, at least one of the signatures 
appearing on each Bond shall be a manual signature.  In the event that either of the officers 
whose signatures appear on the Bonds shall cease to be such officers before the Closing, such 
signatures shall, nevertheless, be valid and sufficient for all purposes to the same extent as if they 
had remained in office until the Closing.  The aforesaid officers are hereby authorized and 
directed to do all acts and execute and deliver the Bonds and all such documents, certificates and 
acknowledgements as may be necessary and convenient to effectuate the Closing.  The City 
hereby authorizes the officers and agents of the City to enter into, on its behalf, agreements and 
contracts in conjunction with the Bonds, including but not limited to agreements and contracts 
for legal, trust, fiscal agency, disclosure and continuing disclosure, and rebate calculation 
services.  Any such contract heretofore entered into in conjunction with the issuance of the 
Bonds is hereby ratified and approved in all respects.
Section 13.  Payment of the Bonds; Fiscal Agent.  The principal of and interest on the 
Bonds shall be paid by U.S. Bank National Association, St. Paul, Minnesota, which is hereby 
appointed as the City's registrar and fiscal agent pursuant to the provisions of Section 67.10(2), 
Wisconsin Statutes (the "Fiscal Agent").  The City hereby authorizes the Mayor and City Clerk 
or other appropriate officers of the City to enter a Fiscal Agency Agreement between the City 
and the Fiscal Agent.  Such contract may provide, among other things, for the performance by 
the Fiscal Agent of the functions listed in Wis. Stats. Sec. 67.10(2)(a) to (j), where applicable, 
with respect to the Bonds.
Section 14.  Persons Treated as Owners; Transfer of Bonds.  The City shall cause books 
for the registration and for the transfer of the Bonds to be kept by the Fiscal Agent.  The person 
in whose name any Bond shall be registered shall be deemed and regarded as the absolute owner 
thereof for all purposes and payment of either principal or interest on any Bond shall be made 
only to the registered owner thereof.  All such payments shall be valid and effectual to satisfy 
and discharge the liability upon such Bond to the extent of the sum or sums so paid.
Any Bond may be transferred by the registered owner thereof by surrender of the Bond at 
the office of the Fiscal Agent, duly endorsed for the transfer or accompanied by an assignment 
285
QB\63289732.1
-7-
duly executed by the registered owner or his attorney duly authorized in writing.  Upon such 
transfer, the Mayor and City Clerk shall execute and deliver in the name of the transferee or 
transferees a new Bond or Bonds of a like aggregate principal amount, series and maturity and 
the Fiscal Agent shall record the name of each transferee in the registration book.  No 
registration shall be made to bearer.  The Fiscal Agent shall cancel any Bond surrendered for 
transfer.
The City shall cooperate in any such transfer, and the Mayor and City Clerk are 
authorized to execute any new Bond or Bonds necessary to effect any such transfer.
Section 15.  Record Date.  The 15th day of the calendar month next preceding each 
interest payment date shall be the record date for the Bonds (the "Record Date").  Payment of 
interest on the Bonds on any interest payment date shall be made to the registered owners of the 
Bonds as they appear on the registration book of the City at the close of business on the Record 
Date.
Section 16.  Utilization of The Depository Trust Company Book-Entry-Only System.  In 
order to make the Bonds eligible for the services provided by The Depository Trust Company, 
New York, New York ("DTC"), the City agrees to the applicable provisions set forth in the 
Blanket Issuer Letter of Representations, which the City Clerk or other authorized representative 
of the City is authorized and directed to execute and deliver to DTC on behalf of the City to the 
extent an effective Blanket Issuer Letter of Representations is not presently on file in the City 
Clerk's office.
Section 17.  Payment of Issuance Expenses.  The City authorizes the Purchaser to 
forward the amount of the proceeds of the Bonds allocable to the payment of issuance expenses 
to Old National Bank at Closing for further distribution as directed by Ehlers.
Section 18.  Official Statement.  The Common Council hereby approves the Preliminary 
Official Statement with respect to the Bonds and deems the Preliminary Official Statement as 
"final" as of its date for purposes of SEC Rule 15c2-12 promulgated by the Securities and 
Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Rule").  All 
actions taken by officers of the City in connection with the preparation of such Preliminary 
Official Statement and any addenda to it or final Official Statement are hereby ratified and 
approved.  In connection with the Closing, the appropriate City official shall certify the 
Preliminary Official Statement and any addenda or final Official Statement.  The City Clerk shall 
cause copies of the Preliminary Official Statement and any addenda or final Official Statement to 
be distributed to the Purchaser.
Section 19.  Undertaking to Provide Continuing Disclosure.  The City hereby covenants 
and agrees, for the benefit of the owners of the Bonds, to enter into a written undertaking (the 
"Undertaking") if required by the Rule to provide continuing disclosure of certain financial 
information and operating data and timely notices of the occurrence of certain events in 
accordance with the Rule.  The Undertaking shall be enforceable by the owners of the Bonds or 
by the Purchaser on behalf of such owners (provided that the rights of the owners and the 
Purchaser to enforce the Undertaking shall be limited to a right to obtain specific performance of 
286
QB\63289732.1
-8-
the obligations thereunder and any failure by the City to comply with the provisions of the 
Undertaking shall not be an event of default with respect to the Bonds).
To the extent required under the Rule, the Mayor and City Clerk, or other officer of the 
City charged with the responsibility for issuing the Bonds, shall provide a Continuing Disclosure 
Certificate for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings, setting forth the details and terms of the 
City's Undertaking.
Section 20.  Redemption of the STFL.  The STFL is hereby called for prior payment and 
redemption on July 13, 2020 at a price of par plus accrued interest to the date of redemption.
The City hereby directs the City Clerk to take all actions necessary for the redemption of 
the STFL on its redemption date.  Any and all actions heretofore taken by the officers and agents 
of the City to effectuate such redemption are hereby ratified and approved.
Section 21.  Redemption of the 2019 Note.  The 2019 Note is hereby called for prior 
payment and redemption on June 30, 2020 at a price of par plus accrued interest to the date of 
redemption.
The City hereby directs the City Clerk to take all actions necessary for the redemption of 
the 2019 Note on its redemption date.  Any and all actions heretofore taken by the officers and 
agents of the City to effectuate such redemption are hereby ratified and approved.
Section 22.  Record Book.  The City Clerk shall provide and keep the transcript of 
proceedings as a separate record book (the "Record Book") and shall record a full and correct 
statement of every step or proceeding had or taken in the course of authorizing and issuing the 
Bonds in the Record Book.
Section 23.  Bond Insurance.  If the Purchaser determines to obtain municipal bond 
insurance with respect to the Bonds, the officers of the City are authorized to take all actions 
necessary to obtain such municipal bond insurance.  The Mayor and City Clerk are authorized to 
agree to such additional provisions as the bond insurer may reasonably request and which are 
acceptable to the Mayor and City Clerk including provisions regarding restrictions on investment 
of Bond proceeds, the payment procedure under the municipal bond insurance policy, the rights 
of the bond insurer in the event of default and payment of the Bonds by the bond insurer and
notices to be given to the bond insurer.  In addition, any reference required by the bond insurer to 
the municipal bond insurance policy shall be made in the form of Bond provided herein.
287
QB\63289732.1
-9-
Section 24.  Conflicting Resolutions; Severability; Effective Date.  All prior resolutions, 
rules or other actions of the Common Council or any parts thereof in conflict with the provisions 
hereof shall be, and the same are, hereby rescinded insofar as the same may so conflict.  In the 
event that any one or more provisions hereof shall for any reason be held to be illegal or invalid, 
such illegality or invalidity shall not affect any other provisions hereof.  The foregoing shall take 
effect immediately upon adoption and approval in the manner provided by law.
Adopted, approved and recorded June 9, 2020.
_____________________________
Danial H. Toland
Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________
Amy White
City Clerk
(SEAL)
288
QB\56958212.1
EXHIBIT A
Notice of Sale
To be provided by Ehlers & Associates, Inc. and incorporated into the Resolution.
(See Attached)
289
QB\56958212.1
EXHIBIT B
Bid Tabulation
To be provided by Ehlers & Associates, Inc. and incorporated into the Resolution.
(See Attached)
290
QB\63289732.1
EXHIBIT C
Winning Bid
To be provided by Ehlers & Associates, Inc. and incorporated into the Resolution.
(See Attached)
291
QB\63289732.1
EXHIBIT D-1
Pricing Summary
To be provided by Ehlers & Associates, Inc. and incorporated into the Resolution.
(See Attached)
292
QB\63289732.1
EXHIBIT D-2
Debt Service Schedule and Irrepealable Tax Levies
To be provided by Ehlers & Associates, Inc. and incorporated into the Resolution. 
(See Attached)
293
QB\63289732.1
[EXHIBIT MRP
Mandatory Redemption Provision
The Bonds due on March 1, ____, ____ and ____ (the "Term Bonds") are subject to 
mandatory redemption prior to maturity by lot (as selected by the Depository) at a redemption 
price equal to One Hundred Percent (100%) of the principal amount to be redeemed plus accrued 
interest to the date of redemption, from debt service fund deposits which are required to be made 
in amounts sufficient to redeem on March 1 of each year the respective amount of Term Bonds 
specified below:
For the Term Bonds Maturing on March 1,        
Redemption
      Date      
Amount
____
$______
____
  ______
____
  ______ (maturity)
For the Term Bonds Maturing on March 1,        
Redemption
      Date      
Amount
____
$______
____
  ______
____
  ______ (maturity)
For the Term Bonds Maturing on March 1,        
Redemption
      Date      
Amount
____
$______
____
  ______
____
  ______ (maturity)
For the Term Bonds Maturing on March 1,        
Redemption
      Date      
Amount
____
$______
____
  ______
____
  ______ (maturity)]
294
QB\63289732.1
EXHIBIT E
(Form of Bond)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
REGISTERED
STATE OF WISCONSIN
DOLLARS
PIERCE AND ST. CROIX COUNTIES
NO. R-___
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
$_______
GENERAL OBLIGATION CORPORATE PURPOSE BOND, SERIES 2020A
MATURITY DATE:
ORIGINAL DATE OF ISSUE:
INTEREST RATE:
CUSIP:
March 1, _____
June 30, 2020
____%
______
DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE NAME:  CEDE & CO.
PRINCIPAL AMOUNT:
_______________________ THOUSAND DOLLARS 
($__________)
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the City of River Falls, Pierce and St. Croix Counties,
Wisconsin (the "City"), hereby acknowledges itself to owe and promises to pay to the Depository 
or its Nominee Name (the "Depository") identified above (or to registered assigns), on the 
maturity date identified above, the principal amount identified above, and to pay interest thereon 
at the rate of interest per annum identified above, all subject to the provisions set forth herein 
regarding redemption prior to maturity.  Interest shall be payable semi-annually on March 1 and 
September 1 of each year commencing on March 1, 2021 until the aforesaid principal amount is 
paid in full.  Both the principal of and interest on this Bond are payable to the registered owner in 
lawful money of the United States.  Interest payable on any interest payment date shall be paid 
by wire transfer to the Depository in whose name this Bond is registered on the Bond Register 
maintained by U.S. Bank National Association, St. Paul, Minnesota (the "Fiscal Agent") or any 
successor thereto at the close of business on the 15th day of the calendar month next preceding 
each interest payment date (the "Record Date").  This Bond is payable as to principal upon 
presentation and surrender hereof at the office of the Fiscal Agent.
For the prompt payment of this Bond together with interest hereon as aforesaid and for 
the levy of taxes sufficient for that purpose, the full faith, credit and resources of the City are 
hereby irrevocably pledged.
This Bond is one of an issue of Bonds aggregating the principal amount of $[______], all 
of which are of like tenor, except as to denomination, interest rate, maturity date and redemption 
provision, issued by the City pursuant to the provisions of Section 67.04, Wisconsin Statutes, for 
the following public purposes, in the following amounts: $__________________ for a police 
facility; $__________________ for a fire engine; and $__________________ for refunding 
certain obligations of the City, as authorized by resolutions adopted on April 28, 2020 and June 
295
QB\63289732.1
-2-
9, 2020 (collectively, the "Resolution").  Said resolutions are recorded in the official minutes of 
the Common Council for said dates.
The Bonds maturing on March 1, 2029 and thereafter are subject to redemption prior to 
maturity, at the option of the City, on March 1, 2028 or on any date thereafter.  Said Bonds are 
redeemable as a whole or in part, and if in part, from maturities selected by the City, and within 
each maturity by lot (as selected by the Depository), at the principal amount thereof, plus 
accrued interest to the date of redemption.
[The Bonds maturing in the years ________ are subject to mandatory redemption by lot 
as provided in the Resolution, at the redemption price of par plus accrued interest to the date of 
redemption and without premium.]
In the event the Bonds are redeemed prior to maturity, as long as the Bonds are in 
book-entry-only form, official notice of the redemption will be given by mailing a notice by 
registered or certified mail, overnight express delivery, facsimile transmission, electronic 
transmission or in any other manner required by the Depository, to the Depository not less than 
thirty (30) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date.  If less than all of the 
Bonds of a maturity are to be called for redemption, the Bonds of such maturity to be redeemed 
will be selected by lot.  Such notice will include but not be limited to the following:  the 
designation, date and maturities of the Bonds called for redemption, CUSIP numbers, and the 
date of redemption.  Any notice provided as described herein shall be conclusively presumed to 
have been duly given, whether or not the registered owner receives the notice.  The Bonds shall 
cease to bear interest on the specified redemption date provided that federal or other immediately 
available funds sufficient for such redemption are on deposit at the office of the Depository at 
that time.  Upon such deposit of funds for redemption the Bonds shall no longer be deemed to be 
outstanding.
It is hereby certified and recited that all conditions, things and acts required by law to 
exist or to be done prior to and in connection with the issuance of this Bond have been done, 
have existed and have been performed in due form and time; that the aggregate indebtedness of 
the City, including this Bond and others issued simultaneously herewith, does not exceed any 
limitation imposed by law or the Constitution of the State of Wisconsin; and that a direct annual 
irrepealable tax has been levied sufficient to pay this Bond, together with the interest thereon, 
when and as payable.
This Bond has been designated by the Common Council as a "qualified tax-exempt 
obligation" pursuant to the provisions of Section 265(b)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986, as amended.
This Bond is transferable only upon the books of the City kept for that purpose at the 
office of the Fiscal Agent, only in the event that the Depository does not continue to act as 
depository for the Bonds, and the City appoints another depository, upon surrender of the Bond
to the Fiscal Agent, by the registered owner in person or his duly authorized attorney, together 
with a written instrument of transfer (which may be endorsed hereon) satisfactory to the Fiscal 
Agent duly executed by the registered owner or his duly authorized attorney.  Thereupon a new 
296
QB\63289732.1
-3-
fully registered Bond in the same aggregate principal amount shall be issued to the new 
depository in exchange therefor and upon the payment of a charge sufficient to reimburse the 
City for any tax, fee or other governmental charge required to be paid with respect to such 
registration.  The Fiscal Agent shall not be obliged to make any transfer of the Bonds (i) after the 
Record Date, (ii) during the fifteen (15) calendar days preceding the date of any publication of 
notice of any proposed redemption of the Bonds, or (iii) with respect to any particular Bond, 
after such Bond has been called for redemption.  The Fiscal Agent and City may treat and 
consider the Depository in whose name this Bond is registered as the absolute owner hereof for 
the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal or redemption price hereof 
and interest due hereon and for all other purposes whatsoever.  The Bonds are issuable solely as 
negotiable, fully-registered Bonds without coupons in the denomination of $5,000 or any integral 
multiple thereof.
This Bond shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until the Certificate of 
Authentication hereon shall have been signed by the Fiscal Agent.
No delay or omission on the part of the owner hereof to exercise any right hereunder shall 
impair such right or be considered as a waiver thereof or as a waiver of or acquiescence in any 
default hereunder.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City of River Falls, Pierce and St. Croix Counties, 
Wisconsin, by its governing body, has caused this Bond to be executed for it and in its name by 
the manual or facsimile signatures of its duly qualified Mayor and City Clerk; and to be sealed 
with its official or corporate seal, if any, all as of the original date of issue specified above.
CITY OF RIVER FALLS
PIERCE AND ST. CROIX COUNTIES, 
WISCONSIN
By: ______________________________
Danial H. Toland
Mayor
(SEAL)
By: ______________________________
Amy White
City Clerk
297
QB\63289732.1
- 4 -
Date of Authentication:  _______________, ______
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This Bond is one of the Bonds of the issue authorized by the within-mentioned 
resolutions of the City of River Falls, Pierce and St. Croix Counties, Wisconsin.
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA
By____________________________
Authorized Signatory
298
QB\63289732.1
- 5 -
ASSIGNMENT
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned sells, assigns and transfers unto 
____________________________________________________________________________
(Name and Address of Assignee)
____________________________________________________________________________
(Social Security or other Identifying Number of Assignee)
the within Bond and all rights thereunder and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints 
______________________________________, Legal Representative, to transfer said Bond on 
the books kept for registration thereof, with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated:  _____________________
Signature Guaranteed:
_____________________________
________________________________
(e.g. Bank, Trust Company
(Depository or Nominee Name)
or Securities Firm)
NOTICE:  This signature must correspond with the 
name of the Depository or Nominee Name as it 
appears upon the face of the within Bond in every
particular, without alteration or enlargement or any 
change whatever.
____________________________
(Authorized Officer)
299
9
MEMORANDUM
TO:
Mayor and City Council
FROM:
Scot Simpson, City Administrator
DATE:
June 9, 2020
TITLE:
Resolution Ratifying Chief of Police Proclamations
PROPOSED ACTION
Adopt the resolution ratifying the Chief of Police’s proclamations. 
BACKGROUND
On March 24, 2020, the Common Council of River Falls adopted Resolution No. 6463 declaring a 
state of emergency in the City of River Falls. The City’s declaration authorizes the Mayor, and/or 
the City Administrator, or the City Administrator’s designee, with the full authority as stated 
under §§ 323.11, 323.14, Wis. Stats., to take action necessary and expedient for the health, safety, 
welfare, and good order of the City during the duration of this declared emergency, unless any 
of said authority is removed sooner by lawful action of the City Council.  
While said emergency authority exists, it shall include, but not be limited to, the following 
expressly granted powers: cooperate with other local units of government under Wis. Stat. § 
66.0301 to furnish emergency services; employ volunteer, personnel, facilities and other 
resources; temporarily modify or suspend local ordinances, regulations and standards not 
contrary to state, federal, or constitutional laws and principles, and such other action necessary 
and expedient for the health, safety, protection and welfare of persons and property within the 
City of River Falls.
DISCUSSION
On June 2, Chief of Police Gordon Young, who is also the emergency government director, issued 
an attached Proclamation containing a list of orders as follows: 
300
Memorandum to Mayor and City Council
June 9, 2020
Page 2
1.
Issuance of direct seller permits under Chapter 5.12 of the City’s Code of Ordinances are 
hereby suspended. 
2.
Existing holders of direct seller permits must, at a minimum, comply with the following 
restrictions to control the spread of COVID-19 and protect the health of the community:
a.
Follow all applicable Pierce County and St. Croix County public health orders, 
advisories, guidelines, and recommendations.
b.
Follow all applicable Wisconsin Department of Health Services public health 
orders, advisories, guidelines, and recommendations.
c.
Follow all applicable Center for Disease Control public health orders, advisories, 
guidelines, and recommendations.
d. Follow all City of River Falls ordinances relating to direct sales and all orders, 
advisories, guidelines, and recommendations which are applicable. 
e.
Always wear a mask or cloth face covering.
f.
Sanitize hands before and after each contact.
g.
Keep a log of all addresses visited, including date, time, and whether contact with 
a resident was made. If contact was made, list the name and phone number of the 
contact. The log shall be maintained for thirty (30) days.
h. Cooperate with local health officers to ensure contact tracing is available if needed.
i.
Do not participate in direct sales if you are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 
or have been exposed to someone with COVID-19.
On June 4, Chief of Police Gordon Young, issued an attached Proclamation containing a list of 
orders as follows:
1.
Reservations for use of City sports fields by the public will be suspended until further 
notice.
Under Resolution No. 6463 and Wis. Stat. §323.14(4)(b), this Proclamation was issued under the 
authority granted to the Mayor, and/or the City Administrator, or the City Administrator’s 
designee, to act by proclamation under Wis. Stats. §323.11 and §323.14(4)(a). 
SUMMARY
Under Wis. Stat. § 323.14(4)(b), the Emergency Government Director’s Proclamation is “subject 
to ratification, alteration, modification, or repeal by the governing body as soon as that body can 
meet.” Attached is a copy of the referenced proclamations, and a resolution for the Common 
Council’s ratification of such, that is recommended for adoption on April 28, 2020. Ratifying the 
resolution will confirm the provisions therein; however, “subsequent action taken by the 
governing body shall not affect the prior validity of the proclamations.” Id.
301
Memorandum to Mayor and City Council
June 9, 2020
Page 3
CONCLUSION
Staff recommends adoption of the resolution for City Council to confirm and ratify the 
proclamations of the Chief of Police, dated June 2, 2020.
302
RESOLUTION NO. 
RESOLUTION RATIFYING CHIEF OF POLICE PROCLAMATIONS
WHEREAS, on March 12, 2020, Wisconsin Governor, Tony Evers, issued Executive Order No. 72 proclaiming a public
health emergency, as defined in Wis. Stat. § 323.02(16), exists for the State of Wisconsin which expressly authorized and 
directed certain actions be taken to address the public health emergency; and
WHEREAS, on March 24, 2020, the Common Council of River Falls adopted Resolution No. 6463 declaring a state of 
emergency in the City of River Falls; and
WHEREAS, the emergency power granted to the governing body by Wis. Stat. §323.14(4)(a) includes the general 
authority to order, by ordinance or resolution, whatever is necessary and expedient for the health, safety, protection, and 
welfare of persons and property within the local unit of government in the emergency; and
WHEREAS, if, because of the emergency conditions, the governing body of the local unit of government is unable to 
meet promptly, Resolution No. 6463 and Wis. Stat. §323.14(4)(b) grants the Mayor and/or the City Administrator, or City 
Administrator’s designee, the authority to act by proclamation under Wis. Stats. §323.11 and §323.14(4)(a); and
WHEREAS, any proclamation of the Chief of Police issued under the authority of Resolution No. 6463 and Wis. Stat. 
§323.14(4)(b) shall be subject to ratification, alteration, modification, or repeal by the Common Council as soon as the
Common Council can meet; and
WHEREAS, two Chief of Police proclamations have been signed by Chief of Police Gordon Young since the last 
meeting of the Common Council on May 26, 2020; and
WHEREAS, on June 9, 2020, the Common Council of the City of River Falls will hold its first meeting since the above 
referenced proclamation was signed; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the proclamation of the Chief of Police, dated June 2, 2020, and June 4, 
2020, are hereby confirmed and ratified by the Common Council of the City of River Falls.
Dated this 9th day of June 2020. 
__________________________
Dan Toland, Mayor
ATTEST:
________________________________
Amy White, City Clerk
303
304
305
Administrator’s Report
June 9, 6:30 p.m. – City Council Meeting
June 23, 6:30 p.m. – City Council Meeting
Tuesday’s Council Meeting Preview:

Resolution Approving a General Development Plan for DeSanctis Townhomes

Resolution Renaming Edenburgh Drive to Kingston Street in Sterling Ponds

Ordinance 2020-06 - Amending the Official Traffic Control Map of the City of River Falls 
(Speed Limit on South Main from Cemetery Road north to the UWRF Falcon Center entrance) 
– First Reading

Resolution Approving Final Plat for Sterling Ponds 2nd Addition

Resolution Approving Final Plat for Sterling Ponds Cottages

Resolution Amending Sterling Ponds Developer’s Agreement

Resolution Awarding the Sale of $6,250,000 General Obligation Corporate Purpose Bonds, 
Series 2020A

Resolution Ratifying Chief of Police Proclamations
Upcoming Events

Spring clean-up: June 22nd through the 27th. City garage on Benson St. 4 to 8 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, and 8 a.m. – 1 p.m. on Saturday.
COVID-19 - Updates
LATEST UPDATES
Pierce and St. Croix Counties Issue Health Advisories: The health departments from both Pierce 
and St. Croix Counties still have in effect health advisories in which they recommend citizens of 
the counties to follow.
Generally, both counties have the following recommendations in their advisories:

Individuals taking preventative measures and following physical distancing 
guidelines to control the spread of the disease.

Limiting gatherings to under 10 people
10
306
Large gatherings quickly widen the number of individuals in close contact with one 
another. An infectious individual at even one large gathering could quickly outstrip 
local capacity to contact trace and quarantine or isolate those impacted.

Avoiding non-essential travel outside communities
Travel to other communities, especially those with higher transmission rates, continues 
to put residents in Pierce and St. Croix counties at risk.

Advising local businesses to adopt best practices to safeguard their staff, customers, 
and the community
Local businesses support the health of Pierce and St. Croix County families, but without 
good practices and consistent physical distancing, these businesses can easily become 
sources of disease transmission. To avoid becoming a source of transmission, businesses 
must have adequate cleaning, physical distancing, and staff symptom monitoring 
practices in place.
City’s Crushing COVID-19 guide: While the Badger Bounce Back Plan was overturned on May 
13 by the State Supreme Court, the City intends to incorporate elements of a phased approach 
and a best-practice business model with regards to local facilities and public spaces. On May 19, 
the City of River Falls mayor and city administrator released a revised “Crushing Covid-19: A 
guide for recovery.” The plan is intended to increase transparency and understanding of the 
City’s path forward during the pandemic response.
The City will utilize best practice models from the Center for Disease Control (CDC) and 
Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation (WEDC) to be incorporated into the City’s 
systematically phased approach to recovery. A copy of the guide can be found on the City’s 
website at rfcity.org/crushingcovid19.
Facial coverings: The CDC now recommends wearing cloth face coverings in public settings 
where other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain (e.g., grocery stores and 
pharmacies), especially in areas of significant community-based transmission.
However, be aware that social distancing and handwashing are still the best ways to prevent the 
virus from spreading. Wearing a mask does not prevent you from getting the virus, but if you are 
asymptomatic, it might prevent you from spreading it to others.
For more information, including making and cleaning your cloth mask, visit the CDC site here.
Community Care: The City has created a comprehensive website for community resources 
including food assistance, social and emergency services, financial resources, and more.
307
DAILY UPDATES (Mon.-Fri.):
o
Wisconsin Outbreaks and Investigations
o
Coronavirus Situation Summary (CDC)
ACCESS CITY SERVICES
City services online: Many City services can be accessed online including obtaining permits, 
reporting potholes, scheduling refuse pick-ups, and completing license applications. 
Check www.rfcity.org for more information or call 715-425-0900.
On-site bill-pay: The City has provided a self-help, bill-pay service between its main doors, 
accessed from the upper (Lewis St.) parking lot.
CLOSURES, CANCELLATIONS, AND SERVICE UPDATES
Here is the current status of selected City facilities:
Open as of May 15: dog park; playgrounds; sporting courts; campground for self-contained 
camping only; compost site (quick in and out, please); curbside, contactless library service.
Open as of, May 22: park bathroom facilities; reservable park open shelters with capacity 
restrictions.
Open as of June 1: City Hall walk-in lobby service. City Hall is now open for the public 8 a.m. –
5 p.m. Monday through Friday, with the exception of Wednesday in which City Hall will close at 
noon to allow for deep cleaning of City Hall. We ask that any visitors to City Hall who are 
medically able, to please wear a mask and if they do not have a mask one will be provided to 
them by City staff.
Glen Park Pool: In consultation with officials with the Pierce County Health Department, the 
Glen Park pool will be able to offer City coordinated swim lessons this summer in groups less 
than 10. Staff will take extra precaution during these swim lessons to assure that appropriate 
social distancing measures be put in place. Swim lessons will be scheduled to start on the week 
of July 6. Staff will reach out to those who had scheduled swim lessons before July 6 to reschedule 
those lessons or issue a full refund. Staff are still in discussions with officials from Pierce County 
to determine if the splash pad will be open this summer.
In light of the concern for large gatherings of people however, the pool at Glen Park will 
unfortunately be closed for open swimming this season. The Wisconsin Department of Health 
has recommended that aquatic facilities not to open for groups larger than 10 people due to 
COVID-19 and contact tracing concerns.
Team Sports: With concerns related to COVID-19 and the need to be able to socially distance at 
least 6 ft., the City will not be organizing team sports this summer. Full refunds will be issued to 
those who have already signed up for organized team sports.
308
Facilities and fields: With concerns related to COVID-19 and the need to be able to socially 
distance at least 6 ft., the City will not be accepting reservations for City facilities this summer 
which include the numerous park shelters throughout the City. The City will also not be accepting 
reservations related to activities on park fields. Community members from households and 
individuals will still be allowed to use the fields and courts with social distancing in mind for 
recreational activities.
Note that facility usages come with restrictions, including limiting groups to 10 or less and 
use-at-your-own-risk cautions.
Court: All initial appearances are rescheduled to June 4, 2020. There are no established in-person 
court hours at this point and the court will not be open to foot traffic. Contact the court if you 
have questions or do not receive a letter at 715-426-3429 or rfmunicourt@rfcity.org.
City Council meetings: The City Council will meet virtually on the second and fourth Tuesday 
of each month, which was the regular Council schedule prior to the City’s emergency declaration. 
See here for agendas and minutes. All City advisory, committee, and board meetings are 
CANCELLED until further notice.
Garbage/recycling: Advanced Disposal (the City’s residential refuse hauler) will not collect any 
refuse or recycling that is not properly contained in the bin/cart that was issued for such purpose.
Police Department: Persons needing to contact the police department can do so by calling 715-
425-0909 or by using our online contact form to report any non-emergency matters. Between 9
a.m.-5 p.m., calls are answered locally. Outside of that time frame, calls are answered by the Pierce
County Sheriff Department. In the case of an emergency, please call 911.
River Falls Shared-Ride Taxi: Hours of operation have been modified and new restrictions 
implemented. See here for more.
Business and retail
The River Falls Chamber of Commerce and Tourism Bureau has posted information on their 
website including:

CDC information for communities, schools, workplaces, and events

WEDC reopen guidelines

Retailers, bars, and restaurants offering alternative delivery services

Financial and other resources for employers and employees
Preventative measures
Remember—there are no medications or vaccines to protect us. Physical separation is the best 
way to stop this virus from spreading further.
Here’s what we are asking:
309
o
Stay at home.
o
Limit your physical interactions to the same people during this time. Less than five 
people in total will help us stop the virus from spreading.
o
Keep at least 6 feet apart from others and avoid direct physical contact.
o
Limit the amount of time you spend making essential trips to the grocery store or to pick 
up medication.
o
Make essential trips no more than once a week.
o
And stay in touch over the phone with your family and friends as much as possible. We 
all need support through this time.
o
Also, continue to wash your hands with soap and water regularly.
RESOURCES AND INFORMATION
Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)

Coronavirus Disease 2019

Frequently Asked Questions

What to do if you are sick

Guidance for households

Guidance for businesses and employers
Wisconsin Department of Health Services

COVID-19
County public health sites

Pierce County, WI

St. Croix County, WI
The public may also contact 211 for updated information or questions about COVID-19.
Updates from Operations

Facilities – Staff continue to assist with a number of items related to our COVID response:  
cleaning protocols, Library curb side operation, reopening needs of City facilities (City Hall, 
Parks, etc.).  Routine seasonal tasks continue on  HVAC and irrigation systems as well as 
general building repairs.  Tom/staff has assisted in the coordination of punchlist and 
remaining Glen Park project items. Tom is assisting with the School District’s transition of the 
Journal building, readying it for construction anticipated in July.  Tom has assisted with the 
removal of the two homes on Division/Hanson Drive.  Both are off their foundations and 
expected to be moved once final permits are in place in mid to late June.
310

Public Works:  Parks/Forestry – Preparation for grinding 120 stumps of removed Ash trees
on the City’s west side is being conducted.  These stumps are anticipated to be removed and
sites restored by mid-July 2020. Routine spring boulevard and park tree inspections are taking
place.  Large trees requiring removal will be contracted, and smaller trees will be removed by
Operations staff. Park maintenance building interior painted, installation of card access, other
Glen Park projects and finishing touches. Glen park pool liner installation is underway with
completion expect by June 15th.  The Pool will then be readied for what’s hoped to be an early
July start.  Similarly, the Splash Pad has been in operation for testing purposes.  A few things
to work out, but it is generally performing well and like the Pool, will be available for use in
early July. A large amount of mowing is currently underway.  Staff are behind where they
would like to be, but if the weather cooperates, we hope to be in a better position within the
next week or two.

Public Works: Streets – Operations staff worked with the 2nd Street Gardener’s to install
annuals in the downtown planters, Second Street, and around city buildings. Hanging baskets
are set to be installed in the downtown area the week of 6/1/2020. Operations staff rerouted
irrigation lines around City Hall to accommodate the Depot project. Touch up landscape
projects were also performed around the new sidewalk along W. Pine St. Line Painting, 1st
round of Stormwater Pond mowing, and Catch Basin inspections and repairs are underway.
The 2018 and 2019 sign list has been completed. Staff have assisted with the Division/Hanson
Drive properties and Jughandle prep.

Public Works:  Fleet - Summer equipment has been readied and work has begun on the Plow
trucks.  A few weeks are usually spent on each truck making repairs/adjustments, cleaning
and readying for storage until used again in the Fall.  Staff continue the migration of data to
the new Work Order system.  A large amount of recall work is underway with various
vendors on a number of our vehicles, Ford in particular.

Projects/Presentations – Ray, Zach, and Mike presented last week during the Winter
Maintenance online summit.  It was well received with several emails/phone call requests for
follow-up information.

Wayfinding – All punch list items have been completed.  Phase 2 has been put on hold for
this year.

Staffing – Adjustments have been made to the Summer Seasonal staff.  All five were in place
as of June 1st.  All of them spent the first day in an Orientation/Training session conducted
by Angelina.
311
MEMORANDUM
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Dan Toland, Mayor
DATE:
June 9, 2020
TITLE:
Mayor’s Appointments to Boards and Commissions
RECOMMENDED ACTION
Consideration of appointments:
LIBRARY BOARD
Reappointment of Rebecca Ferguson through July 2023
Reappointment of Kari Heinselman through July 2023
PLAN COMMISSION
Appointment of Craig Hofland through July 2023
11
312
Dear Mayor Toland:
Serving on the Library Board has been a very rewarding experience for me, even during the 
pandemic. I would like very much to be able to continue to serve our River Falls community as 
a Board member, and I hope you will consider reappointing me.
If you have any questions or concerns, please contact me.
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely, 
Rebecca Ferguson
Mayor,
For the past academic year, it has been my privilege to have served the 
remainder of Milissa Wilson's tenure on the River Falls Public Library Board. I am 
interested in continuing in this role for a new term. Thanks for your consideration.
Kari Heinselman
313
(ff; 
Cityof/ 
RIVER FALLS 
Volunteer Interest Form 
City of River Falls Boards, Commissions, and Committees 
I✓! 
Yes! I am a City of River Falls resident interested in serving my community as part of a City
board, commission, or committee. 
The following boards/commissions/committees are most interesting to me: 
(See www.rfcity.org/RFserves for group descriptions. Use dropdowns to make selections.) 
1) Plan Commission
3) ____________ 
_
2) ______________ 
_
Date: 12111119 
My contact information:
Name: Craig Hofland
Preferred phone#: _________ Email: 
Address: 150 Kusilek St. 
Street address 
City: River Falls 
(You must be a City of River Falls resident to serve.) 
A little about me (background, qualifications, education): 
Apt./Unit# 
State: WI 
Zip: 54022 
---
I have lived in River Falls since 2005 and relocated my business here in 2011. Originally, I grew 
up on a farm in a small rural community in southern Minnesota. I then relocated to Rochester 
MN where I went to college for Carpentry, Business Administration and Electronics. I have 
worked in the corporate environment in the technoloav sector and have owned my own 
a 
Why I want to serve: 
I would like to join the plan commission because of my passion for the community I live in and 
the current business development that is on the horizon. I am very interested in the city's 
strategic initiatives and would like to help bring that to fruition. I believe every local community a 
Thank you for your interest! 
Please submit your form and Mayor Dan Toland will be in touch. 
SUBMIT TO MAYOR 
If 
you'd like, you may also print, complete, and mail your form to: 
Mayor Dan Toland, City of River Falls, 222 Lewis Street, River Falls, WI 54022 
314
A little about me: 
I have lived in River Falls since 2005 and relocated my business here in 2011. Originally, I grew 
up on a farm in a small rural community in southern Minnesota. I then relocated to Rochester 
MN where I went to college for Carpentry, Business Administration and Electronics. I have 
worked in the corporate environment in the technology sector and have owned my own 
businesses relating to carpentry, landscaping, solar, real estate, insurance agency, restaurant 
owner, and a software and digital marketing company. I am an entrepreneur 
 with a passion for business and an upbeat positive leader. 
Why I want to serve. 
I would like to join the plan commission because of my passion for the community I live in and 
the current business development that is on the horizon. I am very interested in the city’s 
strategic initiatives and would like to help bring that to fruition. I believe every local community 
has a story, a history, and a unique personality that cannot be replicated. This is often thanks to 
specialized, small-scale businesses, and the industrial manufacturing companies, which 
contribute to a neighborhoods distinctive character and promotes a thriving ecosystem in their 
community. Small, independent businesses offer diverse products and services, fostering 
economic resilience by removing the local economy’s dependence on a single industry. 
Sincerely, 
Craig Hofland 
315
