6/4/2020 5:21 PM 
 
  
OMB      0  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Special Meeting of the City Council 
(VIRTUAL) 
Agenda 
                                 June 9, 2020 
7:00 p.m.  
____________________________________________________ 
  
1. CALL TO ORDER 
 
 
 
2. ROLL CALL 
 
 
 
3. INVOCATION 
 
a. The invocation is to be led by Marbelys Fatjo, City Clerk 
 
 
 
4. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
a. The pledge of allegiance is to be led by Council Member Garcia-Roves 
 
 
 
5. MEETING GUIDELINES 
 
The following guidelines, which apply to today’s City’s Council Meeting, have been set by 
Mayor Carlos Hernandez through the execution of an Order on Emergency Public Meeting 
Guidelines and Procedures Using Communications Media Technology In Response To 
COVID-19: 
 
 
Pursuant to emergency management powers as set forth in F.S. §§252.31-
252.90, Governor Ron DeSantis issued Executive Order 20-69 on March 
20, 2020, suspending the “Florida’s Government in Sunshine Laws” 
requirement that a quorum of the legislative body holding a public 
meeting be met in-person and the meeting be held at a physical location 
accessible to the public for the duration of the State’s Declaration of 
   Carlos Hernández 
 
Mayor 
 
Paul B. Hernández 
President 
 
Oscar De la Rosa 
Vice President  
 
Council Members  
Katharine Cue-Fuente 
Jacqueline Garcia-Roves 
Monica Perez 
Jesus Tundidor 
Carl Zogby 
 
6/4/2020 5:21 PM 
 
Emergency issued on March 9, 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic affecting the State of Florida.  Executive Order 20-69 allows 
local governments to use communications media technology to hold 
public meetings during the public health emergency as a result of COVID-
19, in order to protect the health, welfare and safety of the public, 
including public officials, from being exposed to COVID-19 and meet the 
requirements of the Sunshine Law. 
 
 
The following Procedures for Virtual Public Meetings of the City Council 
using Communications Media Technology in Response to COVID-19 
have been adopted as minimum procedures for all emergency public 
meetings of the City Council, board and committees of the City of Hialeah 
effective the execution of Order on Emergency Public Meeting 
Guidelines and Procedures using Communications Media Technology 
in Response to COVID19, signed by Mayor Carlos Hernandez on April 
8, 2020. 
 
 
The virtual public meeting shall be broadcast live for members of the public 
to view on the City’s Facebook page.  A Facebook account is not required 
in order to view this virtual public meeting.  In addition, members of the 
public may hear the meeting live through telephonic conferencing.  You can 
join the meeting via telephonic conferencing using any telephone or 
cellular phone service.  A smart device or computer are not necessary to 
participate in the meeting if you join by phone.   
 
 
Any person interested in making comments or posing questions on matters 
of public concern or on any item on the agenda may do so prior to the 
meeting taking place by email to virtualmeeting@hialeahfl.gov by 3:00 
p.m. the business day prior to the meeting or no later than six (6) hours 
prior to the meeting if only 24-hours’ notice prior to the meeting is provided 
by the City.  Email comments and questions shall not exceed three (3) 
minutes when read.  Only the first three minutes of e-mail comments and 
questions received by the deadline will be read into and form part of the 
public record.   
 
 
Any person interested in making comments or posing questions on matters 
of public concern or on any item on the agenda may do so during the 
meeting by joining the meeting using Zoom or any other similar web-based 
meeting platform being used as identified in the notice.  The person 
interested in joining the meeting to participate for this purpose must register 
with the City Clerk by completing a registration form, providing the 
information required and submitting the completed form to the City Clerk 
no later than 3:00 p.m. the business day prior to the meeting or no later than 
six (6) hours prior to the meeting if only 24-hours’ notice prior to the 
meeting is provided by the City.  All registered participants will be muted 
during the meeting until called upon to be heard.  Participation through 
Zoom requires a computer or smart mobile device with a microphone and 
web camera.  The participant may elect to participate in the meeting using 
audio only or appear through both audio and video.  The video function of 
all participants appearing through video will be turned off until called upon 
to be heard.   
6/4/2020 5:21 PM 
 
 
 
Participants are reminded to maintain decorum in their comments and 
appearance throughout their participation as the whole meeting will be 
recorded and published on the City’s Facebook page and retained pursuant 
to the Florida Public Records Law.   
 
 
All existing laws or rules of procedure applicable to public meetings (i.e. 
three minute limit on speaking, three in favor and three in opposition on any 
item on the agenda, lobbyist registration requirements), that are not in 
conflict with these procedures and can be observed under the circumstances 
remain in effect and to the greatest extent practicable should be observed.   
 
 
Public comments and questions, whether on general matters of public 
concern or on a matter on the agenda, will be heard at the beginning of the 
meeting and once heard no other public participation will be permitted.   
 
 
Persons making public comments must identify themselves by first and last 
name and provide their address for the record, prior to speaking.   
 
 
If during the course of the meeting, technical problems develop with the 
communications network that prevent interested persons from attending, the 
meeting shall be adjourned until the problems have been corrected.   
 
 
 
6. COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS 
 
 
 
 
7. ANNOUNCEMENT OF AMENDMENTS/CORRECTIONS TO THE AGENDA 
 
 
 
 
8. CONSENT AGENDA 
 
 
All items listed with letter designations are considered routine and will be enacted by one 
motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a Councilmember, the 
Mayor or a resident so requests, in which case the item will be removed from the consent 
agenda and considered along with the regular order of business. 
 
A. Request permission to approve the minutes of the Virtual Special Meeting of the City 
Council held on May 28, 2020.   
(OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK). 
 
B. Request from Samurai Fireworks, located at 7950 NW 53rd Street, Suite 337, Miami, Florida, 
for permission to install a seasonal tent for the sale of fireworks, with set up taking place on 
Friday, June 19, 2020, and sales commencing on Friday, June 19, 2020 and ending on 
Saturday, July 4, 2020, to be located at 2122 West 62 Street, Hialeah, Florida, subject to the 
6/4/2020 5:21 PM 
 
requirements of the Fire Department.   
(OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK) 
 
C. Request from Samurai Fireworks, located at 7950 NW 53rd Street, Suite 337, Miami, Florida, 
for permission to install a seasonal tent for the sale of fireworks, with set up taking place on 
Friday, June 19, 2020, and sales commencing on Friday, June 19, 2020 and ending on 
Saturday, July 4, 2020, to be located at 5378 West 16 Avenue, Hialeah, Florida, subject to 
requirements of the Fire Department.   
(OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK) 
 
D. Request from ABC Promotions Unlimited Inc., located at 940 South Military Trail, # 94, 
West Palm Beach, Florida, for permission to install a seasonal tent for the sale of fireworks, 
with set up taking place on Monday, June 15, 2020 and take down on Wednesday, July 8, 
2020, and with sales taking place from Saturday, June 20, 2020 through Saturday, July 4, 
2020, to be located at 1700 West 49th Street, Hialeah, Florida, subject to the requirements of 
the Fire Department.   
(OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK) 
 
E. Proposed resolution approving the naming of West 5th Way from West 22 Street to West 26 
Street as “Annie R. Johnson Way”, with the cost signage to be paid by the City, in her honor, 
as an activist, mentor liaison from the community in the City of Hialeah, a role model and 
resident of Hialeah.  
(ADMINISTRATION) 
 
F. Proposed resolution approving to increase purchase order #2020-257 by an additional amount 
of $28,000.00 for a new cumulative amount not to exceed $71,036.00 from the Law 
Enforcement Trust Fund-State for the rental of undercover surveillance vehicles from Royal-
Rent-A-Car Systems of Florida, Inc., Vendor #21162, upon such costs having been approved 
by the Chief of Police, and providing for an effective date.  
(POLICE DEPARTMENT) 
 
G. Proposed resolution approving the expenditure in an amount not to exceed $14,500.00 from 
the Law Enforcement Trust Fund-Federal for the purchase of one (1) canine for the Hialeah 
Police Department Canine Unit from Metro Dade K9 Services, lowest quoted vendor, upon 
such costs having been approved by the Chief of Police, and providing for an effective date. 
(POLICE DEPARTMENT) 
 
H. Request permission to award Hialeah Invitation to Bid No. 2019/20-3210-00-001 – Roadway 
Improvements to NW 102 Avenue from 162nd to 170th Street, to Metro Express, Inc., lowest 
responsive and responsible bidder, in the total construction amount of $3,244,000, and further 
request a ten percent (10%) contingency allowance to cover any unforeseen issues that may 
arise during the project in the amount of $324,400, for a total cumulative expense amount not 
to exceed $3,568,400, amount which is reimbursable through the City’s Florida Job Growth 
Infrastructure Grant Agreement with the State of Florida Department of Economic 
Opportunity dated June 28, 2018. 
(STREETS) 
(DEPARTMENT OF GRANTS AND HUMAN SERVICES) 
 
I. Proposed resolution approving an agreement between FDG Countyline LLC, a Delaware 
Limited Liability Company, and the City of Hialeah, in substantial conformity with 
agreement attached and made a part of this resolution as “Exhibit A”, for the transfer of 
6/4/2020 5:21 PM 
 
freshwater palustrine emergent credits to mitigate the impact on wetlands by the roadway 
construction project of N.W. 97 Avenue in an amount not to exceed $191,395.00 for a 
maximum of fifteen (15) state acre credits at the unit cost of $12,759.61, or the equivalent 
federal credits at the conversion ratio of 1:2.5471; authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk, 
as attesting witness, on behalf of the City to execute the Mitigation Transfer Agreement; and 
providing for an effective date. 
(ADMINISTRATION) 
 
J. Proposed resolution authorizing the transfer of unencumbered appropriation balance or a 
portion thereof between classifications of expenditures within an office or department for the 
departments identified within the General Fund; within the Special Revenue Funds, in 
particular, Law Enforcement Trust Fund (LETF), Fire Prevention Fund, Fire Rescue Fund, 
Parks Grant & Impact Fee Fund, Children’s Trust Fund, Urban Areas Security Initiative 
(UASI), State Housing Initiative Program Fund, Community Service Fund, Building Division 
Fund; and within the Public Works Funds in particular, Water & Sewer Fund all as 
summarized and itemized in the schedule attached as Exhibit “A” and made a part hereof; 
and providing for effective an date. 
(OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET) 
 
K. Proposed resolution approving supplemental appropriations to the annual budget for fiscal 
year 2019-2020 and in particular, revising the budget to supplement revenues within the 
Special Revenue Funds, in particular, Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Fund, 
Lead Hazard Reduction Grant, Law Enforcement Trust Fund (LETF)-State, Emergency 
Solutions Grant Fund, Fire Prevention Fund, Fire Rescue Transportation Fund, Home 
Investment Partnership Program Fund, Park Grants & Impact Fees Fund, Police Grant Fund, 
State Housing Initiative Program Fund, E-911 Wireless Fund, LETF-Federal Fund, and 
Community Services  Fund; and within the Capital Funds in particular, Elderly Housing 
Renovation Fund and W 28 Ave-52 Street to 80 Street Fund all as summarized and itemized 
in the schedule attached as Exhibit “B” and made a part hereof; and providing an effective 
date.  
(OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET) 
 
L. Request approval to retain the professional services of CapFinancial Partners, LLC, as the 
investment advisor to the City’s General Employees Retirement System Board of Trustees, 
commencing on October 1, 2019 and ending on September 30, 2020, with the firm’s fee 
being based on quarterly statements and reports, in a total cumulative amount not to exceed 
$110,000. 
(RETIREMENT DEPARTMENT)  
 
M. Proposed resolution approving an  Interlocal Agreement with Miami-Dade County for a term 
not exceeding three (3) years for the enforcement of specified state misdemeanors as civil 
citations through the County’s Code Enforcement and Diversion Program, pursuant to the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Interlocal Agreement attached hereto and made a part 
hereof as Exhibit “A”; authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk, as attesting witness, on 
behalf of the City, to execute the Interlocal Agreement; and providing for an effective date. 
(POLICE DEPARTMENT) 
 
N. Proposed resolution establishing a “Property Assessed Clean Energy” (PACE) Program 
within the corporate limits of City of Hialeah; by approving Interlocal Agreements with the 
Florida Pace Funding Agency (Exhibit “1) and the Florida Green Finance Authority (Exhibit 
6/4/2020 5:21 PM 
 
“2”); to which these entities will administer voluntary non-ad valorem financing of 
qualifying conservation and energy efficient renewable energy and wind resistance 
improvements; authorizing the Mayor to execute said agreements; and providing for an 
effective date. 
(ADMINISTRATION) 
 
 
 
9. ADMINISTRATIVE ITEMS 
 
 
A. 
Second reading and public hearing of proposed ordinance terminating a Land Lease and 
Easement Agreement dated December 31, 2012, by and between the City and Renegade at 
Hialeah Blvd, LLC, a Florida Limited Liability Company, for a term of 30 years and three 
successive 10-year renewals at an annual rent of $1.00 approved by Hialeah, Fla. Ordinance 
12-78 (November 27, 2012); approving the conveyance by Quit-Claim Deed of a vacant 
parcel of land consisting of approximately 6,703 square feet, more or less, in area to 
Renegade at Hialeah Blvd., LLC, in exchange for the payment of $65,000.00; approving a 
Parking and Cross Access Easement Agreement by and between the City and the Renegade 
pursuant to the terms and conditions as set forth in the agreement attached hereto and made 
a part hereof as “Exhibit 2”, authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk, as attesting witness, 
on behalf of the City, to execute the Quit Claim, Parking and Cross Access Easement 
Agreement and all other necessary documents in furtherance hereof; Repealing all 
ordinances in conflict herewith; providing for a severability clause; and providing for an 
effective date. 
(ADMINISTRATION) 
 
Item was approved on first reading by the City Council on May 28, 2020. 
 
 
B. Second reading and public hearing of proposed ordinance approving covenants in favor of 
Miami-Dade County to maintain, operate and preserve a Stormwater Management System 
as designed on N.W. 102 Avenue, from N.W. 162 Street to N.W. 170 Street, as more 
particularly described in the form covenants, a copy of which is attached hereto and made a 
part hereof as “Exhibit 1”; authorizing the execution of the covenants by the Mayor and City 
Clerk, on behalf of the City; repealing all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict 
herewith; providing for a severability clause; and providing for an effective date. 
(STREETS) 
 
Item was approved on first reading by the City Council on May 28, 2020. 
 
C. Second reading and public hearing of proposed ordinance consenting to the ground lease 
with PTI US Towers II, LLC for a wireless communications facility located at Goodlet Park 
for a period of five years, commencing on March 31, 2020 and ending on March 30 2025, 
providing for an annual rental of $65,100, with a 5% annual increase with three successive 
five-year renewals; repealing all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith; 
providing penalties for violation hereof; providing for a severability clause; and providing 
for an effective date. 
(ADMINISTRATION) 
 
6/4/2020 5:21 PM 
 
Item was approved on first reading by the City Council on May 28, 2020. 
 
D. 
First reading of proposed ordinance amending Chapter 2 entitled “Administration”, Article 
III. Boards, Commissions and Committees, of the Code of Ordinances of the City of 
Hialeah, by creating Division 9, Standing and Ad Hoc Committees, Sections 2-759 through 
2-763; to provide for the name, makeup, purpose of committees and number of committee 
members selected by the President of the Hialeah City Council; repealing all ordinances or 
parts of ordinances in conflict herewith; providing penalties for violation hereof; providing 
for inclusion in the code; providing for an effective date. 
(COUNCIL PRESIDENT HERNANDEZ) 
 
Item was postponed on first reading by the City Council on May 28, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
10. BOARD APPOINTMENTS  
 
 
A. Proposed resolution appointing Council Member Monica Perez as Adult Advisor to the 
City of Hialeah Youth Advisory Board; and providing for an effective date. 
 
 
B. Proposed resolution reappointing Robert Williams Jr. to the Board of Trustees of the 
Employees General Retirement System as the Board Members of the Employees 
Retirement System Appointment, for a two (2)-year term ending on December 31, 2021. 
 
 
 
11. UNFINISHED BUSINESS 
 
 
 
12. NEW BUSINESS 
 
 
 
13. CITY COUNCIL’S NEW BUSINESS 
 
 
 
 
NEXT CITY COUNCIL MEETING: Tuesday, June 9, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. 
 
NEXT CHARTER SCHOOL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE MEETING: Tuesday, August 25, 
2020 at 6:30 p.m. 
 
 
Anyone wishing to obtain a copy of an agenda item should contact the Office of the City Clerk 
at (305) 883-5820 or visit at 501 Palm Avenue, 3rd Floor, Hialeah, Florida, between the hours of 
6/4/2020 5:21 PM 
 
8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. 
 
  Persons wishing to appeal any decision made by the City Council, with respect to any 
matter considered at the meeting, will need a record of the proceedings and, for such purposes, 
may need to ensure that a verbatim record of the proceedings is made, which record includes 
the testimony and evidence upon which the appeal is to be based. 
 
An ordinance or resolution shall become effective when passed by the City Council and signed by 
the Mayor or at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting, if the Mayor’s signature is 
withheld or if the City Council overrides the Mayor’s veto. If the Mayor’s veto is sustained, the 
affected ordinance or resolution does not become law and is deemed null and void. 
 
In accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, persons needing special 
accommodations to participate in the proceeding should contact the Office of the City Clerk at 
(305) 883-5820 for assistance no later than two (2) days prior to the proceeding; if hearing 
impaired you may telephone the Florida Relay Service at (800) 955-8771 (TDD), (877) 955-
8773 (Spanish) or (800) 955-8770 (Voice). 
