 
 
AGENDA 
Special Human Relations Commission 
June 16, 2020 
6:00 p.m. 
 
**LOCATION CHANGE** 
 
DeKalb Police Department 
700 W. Lincoln Highway 
Second Floor Training Room 
DeKalb, Illinois 60115 
 
 
A. 
Roll Call 
 
B. 
Approval of the Agenda 
 
C. 
Approval of Minutes – March 3, 2020. 
 
D. 
Public Participation 
 
E. 
Old Business 
 
 
1. 
Police-Community Relations / Building a Better Community. 
 
F. 
New Business 
 
 
None. 
 
G. 
Adjournment 
 
 
 
 
For questions regarding this agenda, please contact Jason Blumenthal at (815) 748-2396 
or jason.blumenthal@cityofdekalb.com.  
 
 
 
 
MINUTES 
CITY OF DEKALB 
Human Relations Commission 
March 3, 2020 
 
The Human Relations Committee (HRC) held a regular meeting on March 3, 2020, in the 
Executive Conference Room at City Hall.  
 
Chair Larry Apperson called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.  
 
A. 
ROLL CALL 
 
The following members of the HRC were present:  Larry Apperson (Chair), David Barrow, Nadine 
Franklin, Joe Gastiger, Norden Gilbert, Lisa King, and Tyrus Wright. 
 
Other City officials/staff present:  Mayor Jerry Smith, Assistant City Manager Raymond Munch, and 
Management Intern Adam Grubbs. 
 
B. 
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA – ADDITIONS / DELETIONS 
 
Motion to approve the agenda was made by Gastiger and seconded by Barrow. Motion was 
approved by voice vote 
C. 
APPROVAL OF MINUTES 
 
Motion to approve the minutes of January 7, 2020 was made by Gilbert and seconded by Gastiger. 
Minutes were approved by voice vote. 
 
D. 
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION  
 
Chair Apperson called for public comment. 
 
Many residents from the community were present during public participation and spoke about the Elonte 
McDowell incident that had happened in August. Sarah Slavenas began the public participation portion 
by stating that the DeKalb Police Officer applied deadly force to McDowell, and he needs to be fired. She 
continued saying that people of color in our community fear police, and that the DeKalb officer escalated 
the situation. She also mentioned that there is no justice for people of color in DeKalb and was asking 
leaders of the commission to act. She was not condemning all officers, she specifically praised officers 
Christensen and Mott.  
Anna Wilhelmi then spoke saying that McDowell could have died from the choke hold because it is a 
lethal hold. She finished saying that the officers involved should not have taken these actions against an 
unarmed man. Mark Charvat mentioned that the city council has been absent in these discussions, and that 
the HRC and the DeKalb Police need to address these issues. It seems as if leadership have forgotten 
about this problem, but it still needs to be addressed. He also addressed how the map app on the police 
website was not working. He stated citizens are demanding access to this map feature on the police 
website.  
Steven Kapitan noted there was a difference in response between the Dekalb police and the Sheriff’s 
Office. The sheriff said there were no violations, but the DeKalb police did not agree and turned the 
investigation over to the State. Kapitan talked about the video McDowell recorded, and stated that it 
seemed to be only one sided, showing only the negatives of the situation. He said the facts are that 
McDowell had marijuana in the car, he was challenging them, and when the police dog showed up, 
Human Relations Commission Meeting Minutes 
March 3, 2020 
Page 2 of 5 
 
McDowell panicked, and turned the phone towards the cop car with the dog to film them. He further 
stated that the officer thought he was going to flee which was a presumption, not an observation. There 
was no video of the embrace initially, all you could see was the officers embracing McDowell. He ended 
with saying the HRC should consider reviewing the video. Earnell Brown spoke next stating the most 
important thing for him is the future. This incident has already happened, what measures can be put in 
place to ensure this type of incident does not happen again. All it takes is one such action for community 
relationship to be ruined. Is there any way that the Annie Glidden North (AGN) Taskforce can be tied into 
this? He noted that the AGN plan is a great plan but there is no funding. He recalled his own experience 
with DeKalb police stating that they were racial profiling him. He ended by saying the AGN plan is great 
for changes, but it is not addressing the individuals selling drugs in these areas. There is more crime but 
no solution. How can we improve the neighborhood without removing people and limiting crime, and 
lastly, police need to be trained in non-lethal methods and de-escalation methods.  
Rukisha Crawford then spoke saying she is tired of dialogue and she is ready for action, she is ready for 
the community to come together. NIU is scared to integrate into the community because of being targeted 
by the police. Bessie Chronopoulos agreed with everything everyone had said to this point. She went 
further by saying it is 2020 but they are still talking about racial issues. We have moved forward as a 
community, but we need to do a lot more. There needs to be more dialogue and transparency but 
leadership and residents. She was not familiar with the incident, she believes it was somewhat dealt with, 
but that it was maybe not enough. She continued by saying that police need to be trained better to deal 
with these situations. She stated we need to face problems together as a community, and we need to tap 
into the community to find people to improve these issues. She finished by saying Charvat was correct 
about the map on the police website and how that was an issue with many residents that it was not 
working properly. Brown asked how community members can be involved in the AGN Taskforce? 
Gastiger answered that the plan in place currently is to repair Welsh Park. The Taskforce needs 
community input to help how they can make it a destination for our entire community. If Brown wants to 
be a part of it Gastiger could set it up. There are other projects that need help by residents in AGN. 
Transportation in this neighborhood has improved. But there are many things that can be done by 
residents to improve these projects. Gastiger continued saying that we need to make it so that AGN feels 
trust but when they want to make improvements, the city council says there is no funding.  
Barrow noted that Dan Kenney’s grow facility will help change the neighborhood. Dan is working very 
hard to acquire the funds. He would like to see more energy put into some of these other projects by 
residents in the city and county. We need to create a place where the whole community feels drawn to be 
a part of it. If Brown wants to be involved with social justice, he should get in touch with Kenney. 
Wilhelmi noted that in order to build community trust, residents need to trust police, officers need more 
appropriate training for these situations. Gastiger responded by saying the training is ongoing, but it is not 
as fast as it could be. Actions have been made to address these problems, but it is not comprehensive and 
a major problem for training is the limited police staffing. Slavenas noted that more people of color are 
using social services compared to Caucasian individuals. She also stated that the officer that choked 
McDowell should have been charged with a felony, but the punishment was minimal. The DeKalb police 
are supposed to be professional, but they are not, and someone needs to take a stand because it seems 
Petragallo can’t do it. Somebody needs to make sure justice is served.  
Gastiger pointed out that there is the individual behavior and there is an institutional culture, there needs 
to be a way to change that. Slavenas suggested if the police are going to arrest African Americans, then 
why not send an African American police officer? Kapitan commented that there may not have been 
enough advance notice for police to do this. Slavenas countered by saying if African American police 
officers are too sparse in DeKalb, then that’s a problem. Charvat then asked if the police department 
shows representation of the community? Brown interjected by stating this is not the issue. Historically 
black police are worse on black people. It doesn’t matter what color of the officer, but the culture of the 
police department. Change needs to be changed through the city manager. Charvat then asked where the 
Human Relations Commission Meeting Minutes 
March 3, 2020 
Page 3 of 5 
 
alderman of the commission was. Brown stated the most important issue is the city leadership. How can 
the HRC impact city council because that is where the real change comes from. Chronopoulos inserted 
that we need to take it one step further, change must come from the people. Residents need to hold elected 
officials accountable but also residents need to support elected officials. Another part of the problem is 
the housing issue. The city needs to better utilize the housing currently in place. Crawford interjected 
there needs to be a plan to get people off housing assistance. Apperson replied saying they are working 
with the DeKalb Tenant Association to address the housing issue. Mayor Jerry Smith commented at the 
end of the public participation by stating that there are 14 boards and commissions within the city and he 
has never seen this type of dialogue before at any of the board or commission meetings and hopes that 
this will continue to happen. He then said he needed to leave due to other obligations, but he was going to 
make sure the city council will be informed of these issues and that they would be addressed. 
 
 
E. 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
1. 
Police-Community Relations 
 
Assistant City Manager Raymond Munch spoke on behalf of Interim Police Chief Petragallo, 
stating that Petragallo sends his regards, but he had another meeting he had to attend. He has 
been meeting with Joe Mitchell and Nikitha Ballari to continue the dialogue. Ballari appreciates 
DeKalb Police taking this issue seriously but wants the conversation to continue. There needs to 
be a community review of policies in place. They need to look at what already exists and see 
what to have a dialogue about. Ballari and Petragallo will meet next week about policy review. 
They will also consider joint adoption of the NAACP shared principles.  
 
Munch continued stating that a goal for the police department in 2020 is a pilot program for body 
cameras. Within the next few weeks body cameras will be worn by a few officers to test out the body 
cameras. This brand of body camera will be piloted for 90 days. The police department will then receive 
new cameras to pilot to gauge which cameras the department prefers. The goal is to have a permanent 
solution for the body cameras by 2021. The police department is currently looking into the costs and the 
amount of data they will need to store. 
 
Munch ended Petragallo’s announcements with the citizen police academy. He stated that the police 
department will invite residents once or twice a week and show them how police work, policies, and 
procedures are operated. DeKalb ran the citizen police academy many years ago, but it was abandoned 
probably because of staffing and cost, but now that is not so much an issue. They will be taking applicants 
for this program. Petragallo will be at next meeting. 
Gastier stated that the public participation that evening voiced that the penalty of the officer in the 
McDowell incident was lenient, what authority does Petragallo have in the decision of the punishment 
made? Munch answered that it is a union issue. Disciplinary action is set in police officers union contract. 
City management must investigate similar cases and examine what the proper punishment may be for 
comparable situations and cities. Gastiger reiterated community members voiced that the punishment was 
too lenient. Barrow mentioned the tasering of McDowell and asked who does this fall on? Munch 
answered DeKalb County. Barrow then asked if this matter is out of our jurisdiction, and Much answered 
yes. Barrow then asked how does a split investigation work? Munch answered that the county officer was 
there because the area is known as an area where individuals sell narcotics. He went further and explained 
that the DeKalb supervisor would have lead over the county officer, but the DeKalb police have no 
authority to give a punishment. Apperson asserted that it would be a conflict of interest between 
departments. Kapitan stated that there was no questioning by the sheriff department. There was no verbal 
consultation, the officer just took the action. Barrow then said that the county officer was within the 
Human Relations Commission Meeting Minutes 
March 3, 2020 
Page 4 of 5 
 
regulations. It was deemed a safe way to deescalate the situation through the policies. Charvat then noted 
that Petragallo reports to the city manager, and the city manager reports to the city council, he then asked 
if the city council can counter with an alternative punishment? Munch answered that the city council 
cannot put out a punishment for the officer. Charvat offered that the commission should further look at 
comparable situations to make a different decision.  
Apperson mentioned there needs to be a change in the housing code for property managers. King stated 
what is sad is that it does not stop, it is continuing. Black lives continue to be impacted by the racism in 
the community. Racism happens across the country. It is humiliating for black men to feel fear in the 
community they live in. She will be happy when people can come to terms and come together. There 
needs to be changes by individuals in the community. Barrow talked about living on N. Sixth St and that 
it is a mixed neighborhood. One of his neighbors bought property to repair, but the neighbor made the 
comment that he was protecting the neighborhood from outside people. He said that you still find people 
in the community that think in this way, that there is still racism in the community. He ended saying that 
this seems to be a cultural issue. King mentioned that white flight is real. 
Apperson stated that they need to communicate these concerns to the police department. He continued 
saying that maybe he can sit down and chat with Petragallo and summarize the comments. The 
commission needs to start in an obvious way. As Joe (Gastiger) brought up, it is frustrating that the city 
council did not approve funding for diversity training. The purpose has been raised again, so maybe now 
there could be some funding for this training. Residents do not feel empowered in the apartments they live 
in, they feel scared to address their issues with their landlord. Apperson stated that Jacob from the DeKalb 
Tenant Association said that tenants need more power for these recurring problems from the property they 
rent. Even if they do bring these problems up, there is no response from the property manager. Apperson 
then said this moves into the next agenda item. 
2. 
Municipal Code, Chapter 10, Landlord-Tenant Regulations Review  
 
Apperson began by saying that there are documents to provide residents who are tenants 
assistance such as the ability to have appliances in their apartments repaired. He also noted that 
the state policy needs to be improved in these regards. Gilbert recommended making committee 
for this action Apperson agreed with Gilbert on a committee of two to look over the housing 
assistance policies. Gilbert agreed to be on the committee. Apperson asked if another member 
would like to volunteer, but he would do it if no one else wanted to. The small committee would 
set up a time to begin to examine the policies. Franklin noted that the committee needs to make 
the housing code clearer.  
 
Gilbert asked about the process of hiring a new police chief. Munch answered that the 
application process is open. The initial application period will close soon, but the period can be 
extended. The city manager is directing the hiring process. The hiring process will include some 
outside involvement, there may also be panel interviews consisting of the public. The public will 
have a voice in the hiring of the new police chief. Barrow mentioned he was on the hiring panel 
for Gene Lowry, he continued saying he thinks it is very valuable to have public input. 
 
3. 
Census Update  
Management Intern Adam Grubbs talked about the ways the DeKalb Complete Count Committee is 
advertising for the Census such as radio, newspaper, social media, ect. He also talked about Census 
completion events they would be hosting. Munch stated that city staff are hoping everyone receives 
awareness about the Census. The events will have access to wireless tablets. 
Human Relations Commission Meeting Minutes 
March 3, 2020 
Page 5 of 5 
 
Gastiger mentioned that he has been working with a nonprofit organization called The Farmworker and 
Landscaper Advocacy Project (F.L.A.P.), this organization provides legal help to farm workers and 
prepares visas for undocumented people. First Congressional United Church of Christ plans on inviting 
F.L.A.P. to a service in late October. 
Chronopoulos mentioned the committee should put someone else on the housing assistance policy 
committee from the public. She suggested the committee consider putting Brown on the committee, he 
seems interested in the community, it would be a good experience for him. Apperson responded saying 
that he had already considered that but was thinking about Jacob from the DeKalb Tenants Association. 
Barrow told the committee that his family is in the process of trying to buy a home in Texas He wanted to 
let everyone know it was a pleasure to work with them and also he will be resigning from the 
commission. He said he would let the Mayor know. 
 
 
F.  
NEW BUSINESS 
 
None. 
 
G. 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
The meeting was adjourned at 8:30 p.m. Motion by Barrow, seconded by Gastiger. Motion 
approved by voice vote. 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________________________ 
 
 
Adam Grubbs, Management Intern 
 
 
Minutes approved by the Human Relations Commission on:  
