 
 
 
 
The McLean County Board of Health  
Wednesday, June 10, 2020, 5:30 p.m. 
 115 E. Washington Room 404, Bloomington, Illinois. 
                                                                                   
AGENDA AMENDED 
Item 7A amended 
1. Call to Order 
 
2. Roll Call 
 
3. Public Participation 
NOTE CHANGE: To promote health and safety, we encourage the public to follow the Gubernatorial 
‘shelter in place’ Executive Order. Therefore, in addition to standard (in-person) public comments at the 
McLean County Board of Health meetings, we will accept public comment via email as an option for this 
meeting. 
 
Individuals or groups can email statements to the Administrative Support Specialist at 
health@mcleancountyil.gov by Tuesday June 9, 2020 at 5:30 pm. 
 
Statements received by the deadline will be read aloud as part of the record, pursuant to the time parameters 
in McLean County Board of Health Bylaws (individuals, three minutes; groups, five minutes). 
The entirety of the statement will be placed in the official minutes, even if the statement reads longer than 
the time limit allows. 
 
We take very seriously the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommendations to socially 
distance and the Governor’s Executive Order 202010, wherein no more than ten people can convene in one 
place. We encourage you to submit your public comment via email. 
 
If you choose to provide comment in person, requests must be received by McLean County Health 
Department by Monday, June 8, 2020 at 5:30 pm to health@mcleancountyil.gov. Upon submission, you will 
receive written instructions regarding how to enter the Government Center (which is now closed to the 
public). McLean County Board of Health rules allow for a total maximum of 15 minutes allotted during 
each meeting. Public comment and the emailed comments will proceed in the order in which they are 
received.  
Finally, the public will be able to view the McLean County Board Meeting, live, on Facebook and 
YouTube. Links can be found at https://www.mcleancountyil.gov/ 
 
4. Approve Minutes: Regular Session May 13, 2020 and Special Session May 21, 2020 
 
 
 
 
        
5. Committee Reports 
A. Behavioral Health Coordinating Council 
B. Mental Health Advisory Board 
C. County Board 
D. Behavioral Health Policy and Funding Committee 
 
 
 
6. Health Department Administrator’s Report  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. Informational Items 
A. Discussion of Social Determinants of Health 
B. Agreement for COVID-19 Pandemic Laboratory Services-Reditus Laboratories  
 
 
8. Action Items  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. Approval of Contract Amendment for John M. Scott Commission for dental services 
 
 
 
 
9. Adjournment 
