ROCK ISLAND COUNTY
METROPOLITAN MASS TRANSIT DISTRICT
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Wednesday, June 10, 2020
1:00 P.M.
MetroLINK Administrative Office
1515 River Drive – Moline, Illinois
This Notice is pursuant to Governor Pritzker’s Proclamation in response to COVID-19, particularly Executive
Order No. 5. That Executive Order suspends the requirement of the Illinois Open Meetings Act requiring in-
person attendance by members of a public body during the duration of the Gubernatorial Disaster
Proclamation, the members of the Board of Trustees governing the Rock Island County Metropolitan Mass
Transit District will be participating in the meeting through a virtual/telephonic meeting platform (video as
available).
The call-in information is available on MetroLINK’s website or by contacting MetroLINK’s
administrative office at 309-786-2705.  
Possible attendees of the meeting will consist of the following: the Chairperson of the Board (via in person or
remote), members of the staff helpful to the presentation of the Agenda items, and personnel assisting with
the meeting presentation.
Other persons (including Board members, other staff, and the public) are
encouraged to attend remotely. As to any of the foregoing persons who choose to be physically present in the
meeting room, such attendance shall be subject to the following: Pursuant to Governor Pritzker's Executive
Order No. 2020-10 and CDC guidelines, no more than 10 people will be allowed in the meeting room at any one
time. To the extent in-person attendance appears to exceed 10 people, some attendees will be asked to wait in
another room with live feed to the meeting until the agenda item for which the person or persons would like to
speak on is being discussed or until the open floor for public comments. Public comments can be emailed in
advance of the meeting to jhirsch@qcmetrolink.com.
1.
Roll Call
2.
Public with Business to Come Before the Board
3.
Approval of the Minutes of the May 27, 2020 Meeting
4.
Communications
5.
Reports of Officers, Committees, and the General Manager
a.
General Manager’s Report
6.
Consideration of Old Business
a.
Personnel
7.
Consideration of New Business
a.
Ratification of Directive No. 3 – Wheel Chair Securement
b.
Ratification of Directive No. 4 – Emergency Curfew/Threat to Public Safety
8.
Other Business
9.
 Adjournment
JUNE & JULY MEETINGS
Meetings held the second and fourth Wednesday of the
           month at 1:00 PM at the MetroLINK Administrative Office
or via teleconference or videoconferencing meeting
  
Wednesday, June 10
        Wednesday, July 8
Wednesday, June 24
        Wednesday, July 22
