 
 
City of Everett 
 
PLANNING BOARD 
 
484 BROADWAY 
EVERETT, MA  02149 
 
 
 
Notice is Hereby Given there will be a Meeting of the Everett Planning Board on  
Tuesday, June 9, 2020 at 7:00 pm 
Planning Board Agenda 
 
AGENDA FOR REMOTE PARTICIPATION MEETING 
 
In response to Governor Baker's declaration of a public health emergency and the related Emergency Executive 
Order dated March 12, 2020, the Everett Planning Board shall be meeting remotely until further notice.  The 
audioconferencing application Zoom will be used for this purpose.  An online link and telephone access number will 
be provided on all meeting agendas and also on the City’s website. No in-person attendance of members of the 
public will be permitted, but every effort will be made to ensure that the public can adequately access the 
proceedings in real time, via technological means. In the event that we are unable to do so, despite best efforts, we 
will post on the city’s website an audio or video recording, transcript, or other comprehensive record of 
proceedings as soon as possible after the meeting. 
 
This application will permit the public to access and participate in future Board meetings and 
hearings.  Instructions for joining meetings in this manner will be provided on the City and City Clerk’s 
websites. We extend our thanks for your understanding and participation in this manner, which is intended to keep 
members of the Board and the public safe.  
 
For this meeting, members of the public who wish to watch, listen or provide comment during the meeting may 
do so in the following manner: 
 
The Meeting Will Be Live to View At 7:00pm on YouTube: 
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdwaOnTb-geJaekx02lH54Q 
 
Public Participation will be allowed only with dialing a toll-free phone number at 877-853-5257 to participate in 
the meeting. When prompted, enter meeting ID #”720 777 3164” and the follow the instructions to join the meeting. 
 
• For Applicants, Representatives, and Planning Board Members, Please follow this link or enter it into your 
browser to join the meeting: https://zoom.us/j/7207773164 
 
• Follow this link or enter it into your web browser to open the Zoom website at https://zoom.us/join. Enter meeting 
ID # “720 777 3164” as directed on the webpage and click “Join”. Follow the on-screen instructions to join the 
meeting.  
 
The Zoom meeting room will be open for 6:30 pm. During portions of the meeting in which public comment is 
permitted, members of the public may call into the meeting at the above number. Members of the public can 
alternatively email his/her comment before the start of the meeting to shane.o’brien@ci.everett.ma.us for it to be 
read into the record. 
 
All Planning Board Agenda Items are available to view at:   http://www.cityofeverett.com/449/Planning-Board 
Speaker George Keverian Room 
             3rd Floor-City Hall 
 
Frederick Cafasso - Chairman 
Jeannie Vitukevich - Clerk 
 
 
 
Any questions/comments about the Planning Board agenda or process of accessing agenda items, meeting minutes, 
ZOOM platform, previously recorded meetings, and public participation process, please contact Land Use Planner, 
Shane O’Brien: Shane.O’Brien@ci.everett.ma.us 
 
I. 
Roll Call of Members 
 
II. 
New Business 
 
1. Site Plan Review – 43 Corey St – The Board will conduct a public hearing to consider 
the above-listed application in connection with the proposal to construct a 50 unit 
residential building with 36 parking spaces on site and associated infrastructure as 
referenced in (the “Site Plan”) being a parcel of land referenced by Assessor’s 
Department as C0-04-000038. 
 
III.       Meeting Minutes – May 27, 2020 
 
IV. 
Staff Communications 
 
V.    
Next Meeting: June 23, 2020 (moved from June 22,, 2020) 
 
The listing of matters is those reasonably anticipated by the Chair which may be discussed at the 
meeting. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be also 
brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by law. 
