A G E N D A 
GRAND TRAVERSE COUNTY BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY 
Thursday, June 11, 2020 – 8:00 a.m. 
To Join this meeting by phone please dial in: 
1-708-998-2564 PIN # 988 265 483
If you need auxiliary aid assistance, contact 231/922-4694 or TDD#231/922-4412 
1.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
2.
PUBLIC COMMENT/INPUT
Any person shall be permitted to speak at Public Hearings and all meetings of the Brownfield Redevelopment
Authority during the Public Comment portion of meetings, which are required to be open to the public under
the provisions of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as amended.  (MCLA 15.261, et. seq.)  Public comment
shall be carried out in accordance with the following Grand Traverse County Board of Commissioners Rules
and Procedures: (a) Any person wishing to address the Authority shall state his or her name and address; (b)
No person shall be allowed to speak more than once on the same matter, excluding time needed to answer
Authority questions.  The Chairperson shall control the amount of time each person shall be allowed to
speak, which shall not exceed three (3) minutes, except, the Chairperson may, at his or her discretion, extend
the amount of time any person is allowed to speak.  A designated public comment period will be included on
each meeting’s agenda.  In addition, the Chairperson may allow public comment during the discussion of a
particular agenda item.  Persons making public comment should direct their comments to the Authority, and
comments should be respectful of all parties.
3.
AGENDA APPROVAL – ADDITIONS/SUBTRACTIONS
4.
CONSENT CALENDAR
The purpose of the Consent Calendar is to expedite business by grouping non-controversial items together to
be dealt with by one Authority motion without discussion. Any member of the Authority, staff or the public may
ask that any item on the Consent Calendar be removed and placed elsewhere on the agenda for full
discussion. Such requests will be automatically respected.
If any item is not removed from the consent calendar, the action noted (receive & file or approval) is approved
by a single Authority action adopting the consent calendar.
a.
Approval of February 27th, 2020 Meeting Minutes (Page(s) 3 to 4)
b.
Approval to pay invoices (Administrative payables listing) (Page(s) 5 to 12)
c.
Receive and File: None
5.
SPECIAL ORDERS OF BUSINESS
6.
ITEMS REMOVED FROM CONSENT CALENDAR
7.
ITEMS ADDED TO AGENDA UNDER SECTION 3
8. DEPARTMENTAL ITEMS
a. Treasurer
1) Trial Balance/Monthly Brownfield Activity Sheet (Page(s) 13 to 20)
b.
Legal Counsel – Updates
c.
Administration – None see New Business
1
 
9. OLD BUSINESS 
a. None 
 
10. NEW BUSINESS 
a. Consideration and approval of LBRF dollars for the Commongrounds Project located within the Eight 
and Boardman Brownfield Plan (Page(s) 21 to 39) 
b. Consideration and approval of LBRF dollars for the Former County EMS Ambulance Garage (Page(s) 
40 to 49) 
c. Consideration and approval a Department of Environmental, Great Lakes and Energy (EGLE) Grant 
and an EGLE Loan for 124 W. Front Street Property, part of the Traverse City Plan/Grandview 
Parkway Brownfield Plan (Page(s) 50 to 87) 
 
11. PUBLIC COMMENT/INPUT 
Refer to Rules under PUBLIC COMMENT/INPUT above. 
 
12. ADDITIONAL BOARD COMMENTS 
 
 
13. NOTICES 
 
a. Next GTCBRA meeting is scheduled July 23rd, 2020 or July 30th, 2020 pending BRA approval 
 
14. SPECIAL MATTERS 
 
None 
 
 
15. ADJOURNMENT 
 
*Action Items 
 
2
 
 
GRAND TRAVERSE COUNTY 
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (GTCBRA) 
  
Minutes of February 27, 2020 
 
Vice Chairman Radtke called the meeting to order at 8:00 a.m. in the Commission Chambers, 
located on the second floor of the Governmental Center, 400 Boardman Avenue, Traverse City, 
Michigan, and led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
 
Members Present: 
Katy Bertodatto, John Peck, Tim Werner, Ron Clous, Marvin Radtke, 
Heidi Scheppe, County Treasurer  
Excused:                     Gary Howe 
Others Present:    
Lydia Barbash-Riley, Anne Jaimeson, Lisa Emery 
                                  
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT    None. 
 
AGENDA APPROVAL:    
 
MOVED by Clous, seconded by Bertodatto, to approve the agenda as presented. APPROVED 
unanimously.  
 
CONSENT CALENDAR      
   
a. Approval of Minutes of January 31, 2020 Meeting Minutes  
b. Approval to pay invoices (Administrative payables listing)  
c. Receive and File – none 
 
MOVED by Werner, seconded by Clous, to approve the consent calendar.  APPROVED 
unanimously.   
 
SPECIAL ORDERS OF BUSINESS     
None 
 
DEPARTMENTAL ITEMS 
a.    Treasurer 
       1)   Trial Balance/Monthly Brownfield Activity Sheet presented by Scheppe  
 
b.    Legal Counsel  - Updates and presentation of Development and Reimbursement 
Agreement and associated waiver for 8th and Boardman for approval  
 
presented by Lydia Barbash-Riley 
 
MOVED by Bertodatto, seconded by Werner, to approve the Development and Reimbursement  
Aggreement and associated waiver for the 8th and Boardman Redevelopment Brownfield Plan. 
Ayes: Radtke, Bertodatto, Peck, Werner 
Absent: Howe  
Nays: Clous 
MOTION CARRIES  
3
 
 
c.  Administration – Notice of consideration for EGLE Grant/Loan for 124 W. Front Street  
 
Presented by Anne Jamieson, discussion of application for a Grant/Loan through EGLE for 
a new project at 124 W Front Street. 
 
d.    Lydia Barbash-Riley made the Board aware that regarding Invision 8th, there would be a                           
proposed TIF assignment between a private developer and a bank presented next month. 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
a. None 
 
NEW BUSINESS   
a. Consideration and approval of the Park Place Brownfield Plan eligible activity 
reimbursement request by the DDA  
Presented by Anne Jamieson 
 
MOVED by Werner, seconded by Werner, to approve the reimbursement of eligible activities to 
the DDA in the amount of $55,000.00 incurred in the streetscape improvements.  
 
Ayes: Radtke, Bertodatto, Peck, Werner 
Absent: Howe  
Nays: Clous 
MOTION CARRIES  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT/INPUT 
None 
 
ADDITIONAL BOARD COMMENTS 
Discussion of subcommitte that was created at the last meeting regarding updating policies and  
guidance document. This guidance document will be provided to developers who are interested 
in contemplating doing Brownfields within the County. The BRA Board will have an opportunity 
to look at the current policies and bring any questions to Anne Jamieson and the subcommittee. 
The subcommittee will take all into consideration and bring back the new policies and 
procedures to present to the Board.  
 
NOTICES   
Next GTCBRA meeting is scheduled for Thursday, March 26, 2020 @ 8:00 a.m. 
 
 
SPECIAL MATTERS: 
 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
MOVE to adjourn by Clous, seconded by Bertodatto, at 8:39 a.m. APPROVED unanimously.  
. 
 
 
 
____________ 
 
 
 
__________________________________ 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 Gary Howe, Chairperson 
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
1 
 
GTC Brownfield Redevelopment Authority Agenda Item 
 
 
SUBJECT:  Recommendation for Release of Local Brownfield Revolving 
Funds (LBRF) for Commongrounds, LLC Environmental 
Activities 
 
 
FROM:
 
Anne Jamieson, GTCBRA Director 
FOR MEETING DATE: 
June 11, 2020 
 
Summary of Project/ Summary of Request: 
 
Commongrounds, LLC, is requesting approval and release of funds from the Grand 
Traverse County LBRF for Brownfield Environmental Department Specific Eligible 
Activities in the amount of $210,000 for soil disposal and installation of a vapor 
mitigation system. The Commonground Project is part of the Eighth and Boardman 
Redevelopment (see attached Project Overview). 
 
Currently the available dollars within the LBRF reserve is sufficient to support the 
request for $210,000 from Commongrounds, LLC. The attached memorandum 
details the specifics related to the use of the dollars. 
 
Based upon review of the memorandum and costs, and the benefits to the 
community to address contamination on an Eligible Property the following is 
recommended: 
 
RECOMMENDATION: 
 
Approval of the release of LBRF dollars to Commongrounds, LLC in the amount of 
$210,000 to assist with the environmental cleanup on the Eligible Property. 
21
                                      
 
 
 
309 East Front Street  Traverse City, Michigan 49684  231.946.5200  Fax: 231.946.5216 
www.otwellmawby.com 
Environmental ■ Brownfield ■ Asbestos ■ Materials Testing 
 
Otwell Mawby, P.C. 
Consulting Engineers 
M E M O R A N D U M 
 
DATE: 
 
June 2, 2020 
 
TO: 
 
Anne Jamieson, GTCBRA 
FROM:  
Mac McClelland 
 
 
SUBJECT: 
Request for GTCBRA LBRF Funding for Commongrounds Environmental Response Activities 
 
On behalf of Commongrounds, LLC, I would like to request an additional allocation and release of funds from the Grand 
Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Local Brownfield Revolving Fund for Brownfield Environmental Eligible 
Activities in the amount of $210,000 for soil disposal and vapor mitigation. 
 
The allocation is proposed to be an upfront lump sum distribution to an escrow account to be drawn as Environmental 
Eligible Activities are conducted, as part of the project financing through a USDA Rural Development Loan. 
 
As background, the Brownfield Plan for Eighth and Boardman included $142,600 for Environmental Eligible Activities for 
both the East and West Parcels.  This estimate was based on an initial environmental investigation of Recognized 
Environmental Conditions for the Phase I Environmental Site Assessment for property acquisition.  That investigation 
identified relatively limited soil impacts in two locations on the property that may require excavation and disposal.    
 
In order to determine the options for soil to be removed from the site, a due care investigation was conducted which low 
levels of metals in excess of EGLE Generic Cleanup Criteria in various locations across the site, which requires landfill 
disposal for all soils removed the site. 
 
One of the metals identified was mercury which has a Volatilization to Indoor Air Pathway (VIAP) Screening Levels of 12 
parts per billion (ppb).  Three samples had mercury results of 190, 250, and 290 ppb.  As part of EGLE’s guidelines for 
addressing vapor intrusion, EGLE sets criterion based on site-specific considerations:  For the Commongrounds site, EGLE 
set the site-specific criteria of 22 ppb.  As a result, a vapor mitigation system, including a sub-slab depressurization system 
and a vapor membrane, must be installed to ensure that any potential vapors cannot enter the building. 
 
The Development and Reimbursement Agreement for the Eighth and Boardman redevelopment that included 
Commongrounds, LLC and Envision Eighth Street, LLC approved by the GTCBRA on June 27, 2018 included a provision to 
provide funding from the Local Brownfield Revolving Fund in an amount not to exceed $142,600 for Brownfield 
Environmental Eligible Activities. Page 6 from the Agreement is attached.  These costs are split between the East 
(Commongrounds) and West (Envision) projects at $71,300 each. 
 
To date, the LBRF has funded $13,053 for the Due Care investigation on the East – Commongrounds property, leaving a 
balance of $55,447.  Anticipated expenses for a Due Care Plan, the vapor mitigation system, soil and groundwater disposal 
are estimated at $360,300.  The request for additional LBRF funds is $210,000.   
 
A spreadsheet that outlines the Brownfield Plan budget, expenditures to date, the balance available, anticipated expenses, 
request for supplemental LBRF funding, and total LBRF contribution is attached. 
 
Request 
 
Authorize the allocation and release from the GTCBRA Local Brownfield Revolving Fund of up to $210,000 for due care plan, 
vapor mitigation and soil disposal for the East – Commongrounds redevelopment.  
22
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROJECT OVERVIEW 
 
Commongrounds is a real estate cooperative in Traverse 
City, Michigan. We develop real estate built for and owned 
by the community, to make the city we love an even better 
place to work, live, and play.  
 
d
  
 
23
COMMONGROUNDS COOPERATIVE  
PROJECT OVERVIEW 
 
SECTION 1: PROJECT OVERVIEW 
.............................................................. 
3 
ABOUT COMMONGROUNDS ....................................................................................................................... 
3 
PROJECT VISION AND LOCATION .............................................................................................................. 
3 
THE BUILDING 
............................................................................................................................................... 
4 
BUILDING TIMELINE ..................................................................................................................................... 
7 
 
SECTION 2: ABOUT THE COOPERATIVE ................................................... 
8 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS ............................................................................................................................... 
8 
REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT ADVISORS 
................................................................................................ 
9 
PROJECT TEAM ............................................................................................................................................ 
9 
OCCUPANT OWNERS (TENANT-OWNERS) ............................................................................................. 
10 
OUR COMMUNITY OWNERS 
...................................................................................................................... 
11 
416 E. EIGHTH ST. OWNERSHIP CHART .................................................................................................. 
12 
MORE ABOUT COMMONGROUNDS GOVERNANCE ............................................................................... 
13 
 
SECTION 3: COMMONGROUNDS BY THE NUMBERS ............................. 
15 
SUMMARY PRO FORMA 
............................................................................................................................. 
15 
 
 
**Project overview includes preliminary information subject to change. 
24
SECTION 1: PROJECT OVERVIEW 
ABOUT COMMONGROUNDS 
Commongrounds is a real estate cooperative in Traverse City, Michigan, with a mission to develop 
real estate that meets community needs and increases quality of life for all people in the region.  
As a real estate cooperative, we are owned by the businesses that occupy space in our building 
and community members who have invested in money in the organization to support the project 
vision. We will use the investment from our tenant-owners and community to create 
Commongrounds, a building integrating food, family, arts, and wellness, in order to generate triple 
bottom line returns to our owners and community.  This creates a pathway for everyone in the 
community to contribute to make the community we love even better, together. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROJECT VISION AND LOCATION 
Our pilot project is located at 416 E. Eighth Street in Traverse City, a 4-story mixed-use building 
scheduled to break ground in 2020. This project adds timely momentum to the redevelopment of 
the North Boardman Lake District, the gateway to downtown.  The “NoBo” district has been 
designated by the city of Traverse 
City for redevelopment as a multi-
modal, compact, vibrant “healthy 
living” corridor and is proximately 
located to water and trails.   
The building is designed to meet 
community needs by including 
workforce housing and early 
childhood care, as well as arts, 
wellness, food, and family amenities 
that contribute to quality of life for all 
people in the region.  The project 
has proven community support and 
has already raised $1.37 million 
from 500+ community members 
who are owners.    
SECTION 1: PROJECT OVERVIEW 
25
Owner-
Occupied 
Owner-
Occupied 
Owner-
Occupied 
THE BUILDING 
The building is designed to best practice “LEED-certifiable” standards for energy efficiency and 
environmental impact.  It has four stories and underground parking.  The first two floors are an 
integrated community center connected by an open atrium, and are 90% committed to future 
businesses and nonprofits that will own and operate food, family, arts, and wellness organizations.  
FIRST FLOOR 
• 
Early Childhood Education & Family Activity 
Center.  Placeholder Owner.  Center providing 
early childhood care and space for family-centric 
arts, wellness, and healthy food/nutrition 
classes. 
• 
Riverside Cafe and Food Hall. Owner: Higher 
Grounds Coffee Company & Iron Fish 
Distillery. High-quality craft food and beverages 
with outdoor seating on the river.  This space will 
incubate food entrepreneurs and provide a low 
cost barrier to entry, shared staff, and mentors. 
• 
 Cafe coworking and meeting. Owner: 
Commonplace. Coworking space co-located in 
cafe.  Serves as reservable meeting space.  
• 
Shared Lobby/Atrium with Visual Art 
Display. Connects first and second floor. 
 
  
 
SECOND FLOOR 
• 
Performing Arts & Event Center.     
Owner: Crosshatch & Traverse City 
Dance Project. Black box space owned by 
Commongrounds & a group of nonprofits for 
performing arts, meeting, and education. 
• 
Coworking and Office Space. Owner; 
Commonplace. Meeting and workspace for 
nonprofits and businesses working in food, arts, 
wellness, and family.  
• 
Teaching Kitchen.  Owner: Commongrounds. 
Commercial kitchen seats 10-20 people for 
nutrition/cooking classes and catering. 
• 
Shared Lobby and Reception.  Atrium stairway 
opens into shared lobby and reception area for 
Commongrounds, offices, and event space. 
 
Owner-
Occupied 
Owner-
Occupied 
Owner-
Occupied 
26
PARKING & ACCESS 
 
THIRD + FOURTH FLOORS 
• 
Mixed Income Residential Rental Units. 24 rental 
units: micro, studio, 1- and 2-bedroom units. 
• 
Movement Studio.  A movement studio will 
provide space for wellness and exercise. 
• 
High-Quality Design.  High-quality materials and 
thoughtful design for attractive, livable spaces.    
• 
Affordable.  Rent based on income. ~ ¼ units to 
60% AMI, ¼ units serving 80% AMI, ¼ serving 
average income; and ¼ units at market rate. 
• 
Shared amenities.  Tenants have access to 
wellness/exercise room, laundry, and guest rooms. 
• 
Green Roofs & Balconies.  The third and fourth 
floor have balconies with green roof which may 
provide opportunity for resident gardens. 
 
 
 
• Public underground vehicle parking. Onsite, 
underground parking for 16 vehicles and 3 above 
ground spots.  All parking will be public, metered 
parking. 
• Adjacent to free, evening public parking. 
Across the street are ~200 parking spots by 
government buildings, which are free on weekends 
and weekdays after 5pm.   
• Proximate to two public parking ramps.  Within 
.3 miles of two parking ramps where residents and 
employees can reserve spots. 
• Multi modal transport. Located on a bus stop for 
the region’s excellent public bus system and on a 
walk- and bike-friendly street.  Underground bike 
parking will be available. 
• Supports City Master Plan.  The city approved 
the limited parking on this site as part of its plan to 
develop a compact, walkable corridor.  The city 
plans to expand the Downtown Development 
Authority to manage parking for the district as a 
whole.  
 
27
SQUARE FOOTAGE SUMMARY 
 
COMMUNITY-DRIVEN AND COMMUNITY-OWNED 
Commongrounds services its community in three important ways.  
First, the mix of business, nonprofits, and housing are responsive to community needs:  
• 
Workforce housing (2016 Networks Northwest Study showed a severe housing shortage) 
• 
Early childhood care (2019 Great Start Collaborative Study: Region has 1/3 of spots 
needed for the infant and toddler care critical to optimal child development) 
• 
Support culture of health through food, wellness, multi-modal transport and social 
connection (2019 Community Health Needs Assessment highlighted health needs) 
• 
Attract & retain families and talent for year-round economy (2019 Traverse CONNECT 
Study: Region has labor shortage and loses working families due to a lack of high-wage jobs 
and affordable housing) 
• 
Develop 8th Street corridor as compact, pedestrian-friendly “healthy living” corridor 
(2017 City of TC Envision 8th Street Plan, 2019 TCCF Health & Wellness corridor study: 
Developing a culture of healthy living has economic and social benefits for the community) 
 
 
Second, Commongrounds adds timely momentum to the redevelopment of Eighth Street as 
a vibrant “healthy living” corridor.  In summer 2019, the City transformed the feel of the corridor 
by investing millions of dollars to upgrade the street with neighborhood-scale lighting, landscaping, 
and bike and pedestrian tracks.  This project leverages that investment and supports developing 
walkable, vibrant neighborhood corridors that help to attract and retain talent and improve health. 
Third, it creates opportunity for people to invest in and own community-driven real estate, 
earning triple bottom line returns for cooperative owners and the community.  Community 
members and local nonprofits/business drive the direction of real estate development by investing 
financial, intellectual, and social capital that align financial returns with social and built/natural 
environmental impact.  
 
 
LEASABLE 
INTERIOR SF 
OWNER-
OCCUPIED 
INTERIOR SF 
TOTAL 
INTERIOR 
SF 
Underground Parking 
 
0 
9,818 
Residential (Leasable Interior) 
12,500 
0 
17,024 
Commercial (Leasable Interior) 
       Food Hall  
       Early Childhood and Family Center 
       Performing Arts + Event Center 
       Commonplace Coworking + Office Space 
       Commongrounds  
       First Floor Retail Space 
 
Total: 15,362 
3,265 
1,836 
3,401 
4,853 
1,499 
508 
20,625 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LEASABLE SQUARE FEET (GROUND-4TH) 
BUILDING TOTAL SQUARE FEET 
 
 
37,649 
47,467 
28
BUILDING TIMELINE  
 
 
 
2017 
• 
Chris Treter (Higher Grounds Coffee) + Real Estate Developer Joe Sarafa developed “Phase 
I” and “Phase II” plan. 
• 
Phase 1 + Phase II approved for brownfield funding by county and city. 
 
2018 
• 
Commongrounds Cooperative formed by Higher Grounds and Commonplace.  
• 
Cooperative raises $550k and purchases property in August 2018. 
• 
Business and nonprofit tenant-partners commit to the project. 
• 
Community “early bird” ownership drive gaining 450+ community owners. 
• 
Hallmark Construction hired as Construction Manager. 
 
2019  
• 
Investment crowdfunding drive to raise equity from community. 
• 
Zoning and site plan approval. 
• 
Building design and engineering 90% complete. 
• 
Preliminary bids based on 50% and 90% completed plans. 
• 
Developed financing sources, including: bank financing, grants, PACE assessments. 
 
2020 Priorities 
• 
Complete financing approval process for all sources of funding. 
• 
Hire CEO and establish broader board to build strong foundation for long-term financial and 
governance stability of organization. 
• 
Develop additional community partnerships for activities in the building. 
• 
Engage community, owners, and investors in building progress and planning. 
 
 
29
SECTION 2: ABOUT THE COOPERATIVE 
 
Commongrounds is a cooperative nonprofit corporation formed in 2018 for the purpose of building 
this project.  Like other nonprofit corporations, Commongrounds is governed by a board of 
directors which hires staff to oversee its day-to-day operations and appoints advisory committees.   
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
As a real estate cooperative, the board is appointed by the occupant owners and the community 
owners (the majority of positions appointed by the occupant owners; two positions appointed by 
the community owners). The directors on our board have a broad base of skills, experiences, and 
networks.   
 
Heidi Gustine  
Executive Director at the 
Area Agency on Aging of 
Northwest Michigan 
 
 
 
Michael Mittelstaedt  
Director of the Motion 
Picture Arts Division at 
Interlochen Center for the 
Arts 
 
 
Rachel Johnson, 
Member Relations 
Manager at Cherryland 
Electric Cooperative 
 
 
 
Valerie Handy,  
Community Development 
Specialist, United States 
Department of Agriculture 
Rural Development 
 
 
 
 
Bob Otwell 
Co-Founder- Otwell 
Mawby; Former Executive 
Director at TART Trails 
 
 
 
Attia Qureshi,  
Change Management and 
Negotiation Consultant 
 
 
 
 
Nick Viox  
Events & Projects 
Coordinator, Traverse 
City Downtown 
Development Authority 
 
 
 
Chris Treter  
Co-founder of Higher 
Grounds Coffee and 
Commongrounds 
Cooperative 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2: ABOUT THE COOPERATIVE 
30
REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT ADVISORS 
The Board of Directors oversees a real estate committee which advises the board and staff on real 
estate development and financing.  
NAME 
TITLE 
BIO 
Raymond 
Minervini II 
Partner, Minervini Group (developed 
Grand Traverse Commons) 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/raymond-
minervini-ii-92a29820/ 
Jean Derenzy 
CEO, Traverse City Downtown 
Development Authority 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/jean-
derenzy-038a8251/ 
Sarah Lucas 
Executive Director, Housing North 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/sarah-
lucas-5023937/ 
Matt Hollander 
President, Hollander Development 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/matt-
hollander-6695a38b/ 
Matt McDonough CEO, Discovery Center 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/matt-
mcdonough-ab43b510/ 
 
PROJECT TEAM  
The Board of Directors hires a project director to hire and oversee additional contractors.   
NAME 
ROLE 
WEBSITE/CONTACT 
PROJECT MANAGEMENT.  The project is managed by a full-time project director, Kate 
Redman, who is founder of Commonplace and Commonplace Law, and an experienced real 
estate, zoning, and corporate attorney.  She manages a team of contractors who contribute to 
the project part-time in their area of expertise, including operations, financing, zoning, 
communications, and legal/accounting.   
Kate Redman 
Project Director 
www.commonplacelaw.org  
Megan Olds 
Operations Advisor 
www.parallelmi.com 
Sakura Takano 
Financing Lead 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/sakura-
takano-3b005326  
Slabtown 
Marketing & 
Timber Digital 
Communications and Engagement 
www.linkedin.com/in/joey-difranco-
04987614/ and 
https://www.slabtownmarketing.com/ 
Jason Wiener, p.c. Cooperative and Securities Law 
http://jrwiener.com/  
Sondee, Racine & 
Doren 
Real Estate and Construction Law 
www.sondeeracine.com  
Rehmann, 
Wegner Group 
Accounting & Bookkeeping 
www.wegnercpas.com  
Elise Crafts 
Zoning + Communications 
www.statecraftmi.com  
BUILDING DESIGN + CONSTRUCTION.  The building design and construction team have 
decades of experience in designing and constructing mixed use projects of similar size.  Ed 
Bailey leads the team on behalf of the project.  He is an experienced construction manager who 
was Northwest Michigan College’s owner representative on major projects. 
Ray Kendra  
Architect (Environment Architects) 
www.env-arch.com  
Cunningham Limp  Construction Management 
www.cunninghamlimp.com  
Ed Bailey 
Owner’s Representative 
www.linkedin.com/in/ 
windridgecounsulting/  
31
OUR OWNERS: TENANT-OWNERS AND COMMUNITY OWNERS 
As a real estate cooperative, Commongrounds has two classes of ownership: the occupants (or 
tenant-owners) and the community investor/customer owners.   
Our core group of occupant owners are established nonprofits and businesses that have been 
working together since 2018 to design and build Commongrounds.  They are expanding or re-
locating their existing operations into Commongrounds.  Purchasing space in a a cooperative is 
similar to that of a condo development: the occupant-owners build equity in their space and share 
common areas which are managed by a board appointed by occupant-owners.  In a condo the 
tenant owns real estate; in a cooperative, the tenant owns a share of the cooperative tied to the 
permanent lease for the property.    
HIGHER GROUNDS (CAFÉ/FOOD HALL) 
WWW.HIGHERGROUNDSTRADINGCO.COM 
Owned/Operated by: Chris and Shauna Treter 
  
Established in 2001, Higher Grounds is a 100% fair-trade coffee 
roastery which wholesales its beans throughout the Midwest and 
operates a coffee shop locally in Grand Traverse Commons.  
Higher Grounds will expand its operations to an additional café at Commongrounds in an exciting 
collaboration with Iron Fish Distillery to fuse coffee and alcohol.   
 
IRON FISH DISTILLERY (CAFÉ/FOOD HALL)  
WWW.IRONFISHDISTILLERY.COM 
Owned by: Sarah/Richard Anderson, Heidi Bolger, David Wallace  
Iron Fish Distillery is Michigan’s first working farm dedicated to the 
practice of distilling small-batch craft spirits.  Iron Fish is operated by 
sibling couples with deep experience in financing, accounting, business 
operations, and community development.   Iron Fish Distillery opened in 
September of 2016 and was recognized by Michigan Celebrates Small Business as one of the Fifty 
Companies to Watch in 2018. Iron Fish Distillery will have licensing agreement with the food hall. 
TONY VU/FOOD HALL 
Owned/Operated by: Tony Vu 
Tony Vu will operate a food hall in Commongrounds, focused on incubating 
food entrepreneurs creating high-quality, locally-sourced food.  The food 
hall will operate with beverage partners Iron Fish Distillery and Higher 
Grounds coffee to provide a dream team for deliciousness.  Locally, we 
know and love Tony’s work as the executive chef of the Good Bowl; 
however, he also operates a food stall in Flint and is starting the Flint 
Social Club, a food hall with a similar mission of incubating entreprenurs 
and food.  He was recently named one of most important entrepreneurs of 
the past decade by inc.com for his work in Flint – read an article about Tony’s other projects here.   
EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION & FAMILY ACTIVITY CENTER 
Placeholder Occupant Financial Guarantee.  Commongrounds is engaged in a community-
driven process to design the Early Childhood Education & Family Center space to meet community 
needs.  A tenant placeholder has obtained bridge financing while the school is developed.   
32
COMMONPLACE (COWORKING AND OFFICE SPACE) 
WWW.COMMONPLACEWORK.ORG  
501(c)(3) Nonprofit Founded/Operated by: Kate Redman  
Commonplace is a coworking office space serving nonprofits and small 
business in Traverse City.  Established in 2016, Commonplace currently 
provides work and meeting space for nearly 30 organizations and 60 people. Its partner, 
Commonplace Law, has provided legal services to 200+ local organizations.  Commonplace will 
move from its current location to a space of similar size in Commongrounds.  Tenants who have 
signed a Letter of intent include: SEEDS, Norte, United Way, Traverse City Track Club, The 
Boardman Review, Taste the Local Difference, and other great local partners.  In 
Commongrounds, it will continue to support connection and capacity building for organizations 
focused on arts, family, wellness, and food. 
CROSSHATCH (PERFORMING ARTS AND EVENT SPACE) 
WWW.CROSSHATCH.ORG  
501(c)(3)  Nonprofit Founded/Operated by: Brad and Amanda Kik 
Crosshatch Center for Art & Ecology explores the intersections of farming, 
art, economy and ecology. It was founded in 2005 because co-founders 
Brad and Amanda Kik believe that the arts and ecology are intertwined and 
essential to enriching community.  It operates a number of programs and 
events serving farmers and artists in northwest lower Michigan.  In 
Commongrounds, Crosshatch will partner with beloved musician May Erlewine to be a core partner 
in designing and convening a group of nonprofits to share an intimate 150-person performing arts 
and event space. The space will also be used for community events and education.  The project is 
currently securing commitments from additional arts partners but will provide a loan guarantee to 
Commongrounds for the down payment and initial mortgage payments. 
OUR COMMUNITY OWNERS 
Commongrounds created an opportunity for our community to co-own and invest in the project to 
ensure community engagement and (literal) ownership.  From the community owner perspective, it 
allows the opportunity to earn more than a financial return; owners will also earn social and quality-
of-life returns from their investments.   From the building perspective, this creates an engaged 
audience and customer base to help our businesses and nonprofits be successful.   
In 2018, Commongrounds launched an “early bird” owner 
campaign where community owners could join for $50 – 
our initial campaign attracted over 300 owners and we 
have 500+ owners as of 2020.  Community owners had 
the opportunity to invest additional money in the project 
through an investment crowdfunding campaign in 2019.  
In total, we’ve raised $1.37 million in investment from 132 community owners.  The typical investor 
is local, non-accredited and almost equally likely to be any gender or age over 30, with an 
investment somewhere between $500 and $10,000.  The median investment was $2000.  This 
demonstrates broad community support for the project from a diverse group of community 
members.  Commongrounds is very excited to be part of creating a new (collective, more diverse) 
face for real estate investment in our community.  These community owners earn a preferred 
return, can attend special events in the building, and elect two directors to the board. 
33
416 E. EIGHTH ST. OWNERSHIP CHART 
Part of the community investor fundraising allowed Commongrounds to purchase the property in 2018.  The property on which 
Commongrounds will be located is owned by Commongrounds, LLC.  The Cooperative is the majority owner and manager of the LLC.  
The LLC is ground leasing the property to Commongrounds Cooperative, who will hold a 99-year lease and own the building. 
 
 
COMMONGROUNDS, LLC 
•
Owner of land (416 E. Eighth St) 
•
99-year land lease to Commongrounds 
Cooperative 
60% 
Commongrounds 
Cooperative
(Managing 
Member)
Class B 
(60%)
JMO & JLB, LLC 
(7.27%)
Judy Bosma 
(7.27%)
Michael & 
Claudia Delp 
(7.26%)
Kathy Dally 
(7.27%)
David Koss
(7.27%)
Bob & Laura 
Otwell (3.64%)
Class A 
(40%)
COMMONGROUNDS 
COOPERATIVE 
•
Holds 99-year land lease to 416 E. Eighth St and 
owns all structures constructed on land 
•
Nonstock, nonprofit corporation with two classes of 
ownership that elect board 
•
Right to use land as security for loans 
Higher Grounds/ 
Iron Fish 
Distillery/Tony Vu
Crosshatch
Commonplace
Early Childhood 
Education & 
Family Activity LLC
Class T-1 
Occupant
-Owners
500+ individuals
(Purchased shares 
for $50)
130+ owners 
invested $830k 
total ($500-
$100,000)
Class C
Commun
ity 
Owners
L E A S E  
34
 
MORE ABOUT COMMONGROUNDS GOVERNANCE 
Cooperatives are a unique legal and tax structure which are owned by the people who use them and 
operate at cost. That means cooperative “profit” is either reinvested in the property or returned to the 
community and occupant owners.  Examples of similar models are in Detroit, New York, California, 
Colorado, and Minnesota.  Over half of housing in New York City is provided through cooperative 
ownership. 
Real estate cooperatives can have different structures, but Commongrounds will have at least two 
classes of ownership (community owners and occupant owners) who will elect our board: 
 
 
 
 
COMMUNITY 
OWNERS
Ownership is open to everyone.
Qualified owners have the 
opportunity to invest and earn a 
return starting at $250
Elect 2 board representatives
Special owner privileges, 
including events and classes
Part of an awesome community
TENANT 
OWNERS
Technically renters but hold 
special rights similar to 
ownership. Commercial and 
residential tenants have different 
rights.
1st/2nd floor tenants purchase 
special coop shares tied to their 
lease at set price; and have the 
right to sell and earn back 
investment.
1st/2nd floor tenants have the 
right to serve on the board and 
must approve all major decisions 
affecting the building.  
Share cooperative staff who 
design supercool events to better 
serve community by leveraging 
all building partners
Part of an awesome community
COOPERATIVE 
BOARD
Majority of board controlled by 
1st/2nd floor tenant owner 
representatives.
Two representatives elected by 
community owners.
1 representative of the River 
(board position charged with 
providing feedback on 
environmental impact)
1 representative from residential 
+ 1 representative from office
Authority to make most major 
decisions for the Cooperative 
and supervise day-to-day 
operations. 
35
WHO MAKES DECISIONS? 
Like other corporations, the Board retains most of the power to run the organization and make 
decisions, subject to the authority it delegates to staff with oversight.  
DECISIONS APPROVED BY: 
Co-op 
Board 
Occupant 
Owners 
Community 
Owners 
Community 
Owner - 
Investors 
Adopt and amend articles of 
incorporation and bylaws 
Yes 
Only changes 
affecting 
occupants 
Adopt bylaws  
& changes 
affecting class 
No 
Adopt mission/vision/values 
Yes 
Yes 
Input only 
No 
Vote to elect Board of Directors 
N/A 
One director 
from each 
(hold majority) 
Elect 2 
directors 
N/A 
Annual budget and workplan; 
including patronage returns 
Yes 
Input only 
Input only 
No 
Day-to-day cooperative 
management  
Yes 
Input only 
Input only 
N/A 
Approve new tenants and 
transfer of tenant owner shares 
and lease to new tenant 
Yes 
Yes 
Input only 
No 
Approve debt or refinance; 
pursue remedies against tenant-
owner 
Yes 
No 
No 
No 
Transfer of tenant owner share 
and proprietary lease  
Yes 
Yes 
No 
N/A 
Determine use of common areas, 
property maintenance, and 
conflict resolution 
Yes 
Input only 
No 
No 
Approve changes to building 
Yes 
Yes 
Input only 
No 
Changes in community owner 
investment terms 
Yes 
No 
No 
Yes 
Sale of building, dissolution, 
additional capital call from 
occupant owners; changes to 
leases 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
No 
 
 
36
SECTION 3: COMMONGROUNDS BY THE NUMBERS 
COMMONGROUNDS REAL ESTATE FINANCING 
Commongrounds is using investment from its community- and occupant-owners and support from 
the state and local government to leverage lender financing backed by a United States Department 
of Agriculture Business & Industry loan guarantee for 70% of the primary loan.  Commongrounds 
Cooperative will be the first project in Grand Traverse County to use PACE special assessment 
financing, where a special assement on the property provides financing for the energy efficiency 
and green infrastructure on the building.  If needed, Commongrounds can also assign personal 
guarantees for the mortgage payments from the occupant-owned spaces in the building. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY PRO FORMA 
 
PROJECT COSTS  
  
  
Land Acquisition 
  
$1,000,000  
Includes: land acquisition, preliminary civil engineering and environmental. 
 
 
Direct Hard Costs 
  
$11,973,095  
Based on 90% completed drawings and preliminary bids.  Includes 6.5% contingency, 
construction management, full residential build out, underground parking, partial white box 
commercial space, some tenant improvements. 
 
 
Soft Costs 
  
$2,457,178  
Includes: Construction loan interest and fees, zoning, permits, architectural, engineering, 
environmental, project management and development, communications, legal/accounting, 
reserve, insurance.  
 
 
Total Project Costs 
  
$15,430,273  
 
 
 
SECTION 3: BY THE NUMBERS (SUBJECT TO CHANGE)** 
37
SOURCES OF FUNDS 
  
  
Equity  
  
  
Hard Equity 
 
 
   Community Investment Equity 
 
$1,396,000  
   MEDC Equity 
 
$1,371.000 
   Brownfield Direct Funding 
 
$210,000  
   Tenant-Owner Equity 
 
$780,085  
Hard Equity Subtotal 
 
$3,757,085  
Soft Equity 
 
 
   Pace Assessment Financing (5.9%, 25-year term) 
 
$1,242,649  
Soft Equity Subtotal 
 
$1,242,649 
Equity Total 
  
$4,999,734  
Loans 
  
  
Primary Loan  
 
$8,675,000  
MEDC Low-interest Loan (1%, 10-Year Term, 20-Year Amortization) 
 
$1,755,539  
Loans/Other Total 
  
$10,430,539  
Total Sources of Funds 
  
$15,430,273  
 
 
 
 
REVENUE AND EXPENSES 
  
  
Revenue 
  
  
Total Commercial Rental/Mortgage Income 
 
$346,546 
Other Commercial Income 
 
$321,214  
Total Residential Income 
 
$357,320  
Brownfield Reimbursement 
 
$100,000  
Total Revenue 
  
$1,250,193  
 
 
 
Expenses 
  
  
Total Management Staff Compensation + Fringes 
 
$145,000  
Maintenance & Repairs 
 
$25,000  
Marketing 
 
$12,500  
Utilities (Excludes Commercial & Market Residential Tenant Utilities) 
 
$13,123  
Property Taxes (Excludes Commercial & Market Rental Tenant Propererty Taxes) 
$83,424  
Insurance 
 
$9,049  
Legal and Accounting 
 
$12,000  
General and Administrative Costs 
 
$16,500  
Security Expenses 
 
$6,000  
Landscaping/Snow Removal Expenses 
 
$7,500  
Elevator Maintenance 
 
$0  
Commongrounds Mortgage and CAM 
 
$37,475  
Community Benefit (2%) 
 
$15,142  
PACE Special Assessment 
 
$65,152  
Total Expenses 
  
$447,865  
 
 
 
 
Returns 
  
  
38
Private Equity Preferred Return 
 
$12,188  
Community Owner Return (Not Guaranteed) 
 
$58,100  
Operations Reserve (5%) 
 
$18,729  
Replacement Reserve  
 
$25,000  
Equity Buyout Return Reserve 
 
$50,000  
Reserves/Returns Total 
  
$164,017  
 
 
 
SUMMARY 
  
  
Projected Net Operating Income  
  
$802,328  
Projected Annual Debt Service 
  
$628,521  
DSCR 
  
1.21 
 
39
1 
 
GTC Brownfield Redevelopment Authority Agenda Item 
 
 
SUBJECT:  Recommendation to approve Local Brownfield Revolving 
Funds (LBRF) for the Former County EMS Ambulance Garage 
to create a Brownfield Plan and address Part 213 Leaking 
Underground Storage Tank (LUST) activities 
 
 
FROM:
 
Anne Jamieson, GTCBRA Director 
FOR MEETING DATE: 
June 11, 2020 
 
Summary of Project/ Summary of Request: 
 
Grand Traverse County, is requesting approval of local only LBRF dollars for the 
creation of a Brownfield Plan to allow for the former County EMS Ambulance 
Garage located at 410 South Elmwood to qualify as a Eligible Property in order to 
utilize LBRF dollars to complete Brownfield Environmental Department Specific 
Eligible Activities in the amount of $143,000 (see attached). The property qualifies 
as an Eligible Property as it is considered a “facility” under Part 213. 
 
Currently the available dollars within the LBRF reserve is sufficient to support the 
request for $143,000 from Grand Traverse County. The Part I application and 
associated spreadsheet details the specific costs related to the use of the dollars to 
address the Part 213 Corrective Actions, Closure Report, Future Due Care / 
Contingent Clean-up Activities, Environmental Insurance Premium and 
Administrative Cost is attached for your review and consideration. 
 
Based upon review of the Part I application, the costs, and the benefits to the 
community to address contamination on an Eligible Property the following is 
recommended: 
 
RECOMMENDATION: 
 
Approval of the LBRF dollars to Grand Traverse County in the amount of $143,000 to 
address the Part 213 Corrective Actions, Closure Report, Future Due Care / 
Contingent Clean-up Activities, Environmental Insurance Premium and Administrative 
Cost and Brownfield Plan costs. 
40
1 
 
 
 
GRAND TRAVERSE COUNTY BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY 
 
PART ONE BROWNFIELD PLAN APPLICATION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Part One application has been developed for interested parties requesting 
potential Brownfield funding on a redevelopment project within Grand Traverse County. Project funding will 
be considered by the Authority on a case-by-case basis considering the merits of the proposed project. 
Criteria for project consideration are listed on page 5 of this application. Based on a review of your 
completed application, we will contact you within ten (10) business days to discuss the next steps in the 
process or if we need additional information. 
Please provide information in the areas listed below, if available. (Please attach additional pages if 
needed) 
1. 
Date of Application: April 20, 2020 
 
Business Information: 
2. 
Name of Applicant:  Grand Traverse County     
 
 
3. 
Business Address:  400 Boardman Avenue, Traverse City, MI  49684     
 
 
4. 
Business Telephone Number:  231-922-4780     
 
 
5. 
Contact Person(s):  Mr. Christopher Forsyth    Title: Deputy County Administrator 
      
 
 
6. 
Contact Person(s) Telephone Number:  231-922-4780     
 
 
7. 
Contact Person(s) Fax Number:    NA   
 
 
8. 
Contact Person(s) Email Address:  cforsyth@grandtraverse.org     
 
 
9. 
Entity Type: 
Proprietorship 
Partnership 
Corporation 
Other (specify):   Municipal Corporation    
 
10. 
Describe nature and history of business: Former County EMS Ambulance Garage 
underground storage tank (UST) release identified in September 1998. 
  
11. 
List similar projects developed over the last five years (if any): 
 
Last similar project may have been the LSRRF Brownfield Plan for Boardman Dam Removal. 
 
12. 
Key Project Contacts: 
Attorney:          ___________    
Bank/Financing:  Dean Bott     
 
 
41
2 
Proposed Project Site Information: 
1.
Address(es):  410 S. Elmwood
2.
Parcel I.D.(s) (if known):  51-104-076-02
3.
Present Owner(s):  Munson Medical Center
4.
Date Present Owner(s) Acquired Property (if known): approx. 1998
5.
Does applicant have land control:
Yes, via agreement with Munson Medical Center
6.
Does the project comply with local zoning and other land use requirements?
Yes 
7.
Any currently known environmental issues? Yes, Open Leaking UST Site under Part 213
8.
Is access to site permitted?
No X Yes 
9.
Project type:  Expansion- ER Built Above Former Ambulance Garage
10.
Project Size: Parcel size (acres):  < one
Existing building area (square feet):   NA 
New building area (square feet):   
NA 
11.
Is project in one of the following (please check those that apply)  NONE APPLICABLE
Downtown Development District 
Renaissance Zone 
Local Development Finance Authority District 
Smart Zone 
12.
Project timeline (Proposed or Actual):
Start date: May 1, 2020
Completion Date:  December 31, 2020 
13.
Additional materials :
See attached Site Features Map, Extent of Groundwater Impact Figure and initial release 
report 
42
3 
 
Tax Base Information: 
 
14. 
Total Investment Anticipated: $  NA    See attached project cost estimate 
 
 
If available, please attach a detailed projection of project costs and proposed funding 
sources. Categories of costs may include real estate, demolition, environmental, new 
construction, renovation, new equipment and other as appropriate. 
 
15. 
Activities for which potential support is sought: 
Phase I ESA 
Phase II ESA 
BEA 
Due Care 
Clean-up Planning 
Clean-up (describe) 
Other (describe) 
 
Part 213 Corrective Actions, Closure Report, Future Due Care / Contingent Clean-up 
Activities, Environmental Insurance Premium and Administrative Cost 
 
 
16. 
Current Taxable Value: $    ZERO- non-taxable   
 
 
17. 
Estimated Taxable Value after Project Completion: $   ZERO- non-taxable      
 
 
Employment Information: 
 
18. 
Full Time Equivalent (FTE) Employees:  NA 
 
FTE Jobs Retained:  NA     
FTE Jobs Created:   NA    
 
 
Estimated Funding Sources Requested 
 
19. 
      Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority 
$ 143,000 Brownfield Loan – Local Brownfield Revolving Fund (LBRF)-- Administered by 
the Brownfield Authority 
 
Anticipated amount of Brownfield financing requested: $  143,000          
 
DISCLOSURE 
 
I certify that the foregoing is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and that I am hereby 
authorized to submit this application on behalf of the proposed project and requesting party. 
Further, I certify that the proposed project will be completed in a manner consistent and compliant 
with all applicable regulatory requirements: 
 
 
     
  
      
 
Signature 
Date 
 
      
 
Title 
 
 
X
X
X
X
X
6/4/2020
43
4 
 
 
 
If you have questions regarding the application, please contact at the address below. 
 
Please submit two hard copies of the application and all attachments to the following address with a $500 
Application Fee payable to the Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority. 
 
Please submit an electronic copy of the application and all attachments to the email listed below as well. 
 
Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority 
Anne Jamieson, 
GTCBRA Director 
400 Boardman Avenue 
Traverse City, MI 
(P)248.762.8701 
ajamieson@ectinc.com 
 
 
Application last updated 3.21.19 
44
5 
 
Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority 
 
Evaluation Criteria: 
The GTCBRA understands that each project is unique and will be judged on its own merits. GTCBRA 
evaluation of projects will not necessarily be limited to the guidelines below but will consider all appropriate 
criteria put forth by the applicant or any other criteria that the GTCBRA deems relevant. In addition to 
statutory requirements, all projects submitted will be considered only if they meet the following overall 
guidelines. Notwithstanding the guidelines below, individual projects are not considered approved until they 
have received formal notification of such approval from the GTCBRA, local governing body and County Board 
of Commissioners by Resolution adopting the Brownfield Plan and GTCBRA approval of a PA 381 Work Plan. 
 
1. Nature, extent of contamination, including threat to water quality and public health, and the 
extent to which the contamination will be remedied.  
 
2. The viability of the project without Brownfield assistance 
 
3. The existence of abandoned, vacant buildings, or blight, and the extent to which the project 
will remove the blight. 
 
4. The type and size of use and the extent to which it is consistent with community land use or 
master plans and the encouragement of redevelopment in growth and investment areas. 
 
5. The extent to which the project creates new long-term jobs.  
 
6. Overall enhancement to the community. 
 
7. Improves public infrastructure consistent with land use or master plans.  
 
8. Other factors benefitting the community. 
 
9. The availability of Tax Increment Financing (TIF) capture to pay for the cost difference of 
developing a Brownfield site as compared to a Greenfield site. 
The guidelines outlined above should not be considered a complete list but provide a framework by which 
GTCBRA will screen projects for incentive consideration. 
45
Project : 1704525
Date
12/6/2018
Scale:
1" = 220'
Property Features Diagram
GRAND TRAVERSE COUNTY, MICHIGAN                      
T 27N - R 11W Section 4
Former Grand Traverse Medical Care Facility
PREPARED FOR:  Grand Traverse Pavilions
DWG
TJG
Page  
1
Property Location
Munson Main Entrance
Former Ambulance Garage / 
UST Location
46
3-Story 
Parking Deck
ER
MUNSON  MEDICAL CENTER   BUILDING  A 
1105  6TH STREET  TRAVERSE CITY  MICHIGAN
Prepared for Grand Traverse County
GROUND WATER IMPACT LIMITS
FORMER AMBULANCE GARAGE
UST RELEASE
47
GTC
GTC
MHC
MHC
Pre-BF Plan
Post BFPlan
Pre-BF Plan
Post BFPlan
ALL Eligible Properties
Department Specific Activities
A.
Exempt
1
BEA Site Investigation
2
20107a Site Investigation
$2,500
3
21304c Site Investigation
$20,000
$7,000
$7,000
4
BEA Assessment & Reporting
5
20107a Plan Preparation
$4,000
6
21304c Plan Preparation
$2,000
$8,000
7
Pre-demolition Building HazMat Surveys
8
Asbestos, Mold Lead Surveys
B.
Non-exempt
1 Unanticipated Response Activities
2 Additional Response Activities
a)
Activities More Protective than 21304c 
$6,000
$25,000
b)
Activities More Protective than 20107a
c)
Activities More Protective than 2114
d)
Removal/Closure of USTs
$15,000
e)
Disposal of Solid Waste
$10,000
f)
Construction Dust Control
g)
Sediment Removal/disposal
h)
Sheeting and Shoring for Seds
i)
Industrial Cleaning
j)
Lead, mold, asbestos acute risk abatement
DEPARTMENT SPECIFIC ACTIVITIES TOTAL
$35,000
$15,000
$6,500
$50,000
Reasonable Cost of 
C.
Environmental Insurance
$15,000
D.
Brownfield Plan
$6,500
E.
Work Plan Implementation
$4,000
F.
Demo of Structures not a Response Actviity
$3,500
G.
Lead Asbestos and mold abatement
City of TC Eligible Properties
H.
Infrastructure
I.
Site Preparation
$7,500
MSF ACTIVITIES TOTAL
$0
$10,500
$0
$26,000
TOTAL ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES COSTS
$35,000
$25,500
$6,500
$76,000
Eligible Activities Summary
$106,500
$143,000
$36,500
48
GTC Plan Costs
Pre-PLAN
A.3.
B.2.d) $15,000 in estimated UST removal costs from 1988 and 1998
POST Plan
A.3.
A.6.
$2,000 for Exposure Route Evaluation for inhalation risks
B.2.a) $6,000 for Closure Report 
D.
$6,500 estimated for Local-only/LBRF Brownfield Plan
E.
$4,000 estimated for implementation/accounting/oversight of BF Plan
MHC Plan Costs
Pre-PLAN
A.2.
$7,000 Estimated Parking Deck Preconstruction Engineering & Assessment Costs
A.5.
$4,000 Estimated Due Care Plan Cost for Parking Deck Construction
POST Plan
A.3.
A.6.
B.2.a)
B.2.e) $10,000 bugeted for soil waste testing and landfill acceptance & disposal
C.
$15,000 budgeted for STOP-LOSS coverage for claims in excess of 
F.
$3,500 budgeted for cutting out the floor of the ER basement
I.
$20,000 for corrective actions costs dating back to 1989, including ISE/GEI fees from response to June 2017 
Demand Letter from DEQ
$7,000 in contingent soil gas or groundwater sampling costs and other investigative efforts arising from DEGLE 
Audit of Closure Report demanded in June 2017
Eligible Activity Details
$7,000 budgeted for future development investigation costs, ex. Soil gas, soil or groundwater sampling.
$8,000 budgeted for Due Care Plan ($4000) and periodic review and updates for changed conditions (4ea @ 
$1000)
$25,000 budgeted for additional Corrective Actions, such as soil excavation, soil vapor extraction or air sparging
$7,500 budgeted for fill, compaction and other site prep costs associated with a contingent remedy or corrective 
action.
49
1 
 
GTC Brownfield Redevelopment Authority Agenda Item 
 
 
SUBJECT:  Recommendation to approve submittal of a Michigan 
Department of Environmental, Great Lakes and Energy 
(EGLE) Grand and Loan Application for the 124 W. Front 
Street Property Redevelopment  
 
 
FROM:
 
Anne Jamieson, GTCBRA Director 
FOR MEETING DATE: 
June 11, 2020 
 
Summary of Project/ Summary of Request: 
 
GLC Northern Michigan LLC, on behalf of an entity that may be named and formed 
later, is requesting that Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment 
Authority (GTCBRA) authorize the request to submit an EGLE Grant and EGLE 
Loan application (see attached).  GTCBRA is the applicant. The property qualifies 
as an Eligible Property as it is considered a “facility” and is currently located in the 
TC Place/Grandview Properties Brownfield Plan originally adopted in 2001 and 
recently amended in 2017. This Brownfield Plan is set to expire in 2031. This 
Property currently has an approved Act 381 Work Plan by EGLE (see attached) 
that is in the process of being amended. In addition, if you recall GTCBRA had 
approved a MDEQ/EGLE Loan in the amount of $700,000 that was awarded in 
2016 but expired in 2019, as the previous development did not move forward due 
to financing issues.  
 
Further, GTCBRA administration, the County treasurer, and the City of Traverse 
City Assessor have all validated that the current Brownfield Plan generates 
sufficient Tax Increment Revenue in which to pay back the EGLE Loan within 5 
years based on the current property tax capture projections in the multi-property 
Brownfield Plan, in addition to the new taxable value and tax increment revenue 
that will be generated as a result of this development.   
 
It is important to note that all local property taxes are currently captured by the 
DDA, and the BRA capture is limited to ISD, SET, and School Operating.  
Additionally, the DDA has committed to participating in support of this project; as 
well as the City of Traverse City has approved the site plans and will be entering 
into a development agreement with the development team.  
 
As such, the EGLE Grant request in the amount of $593,552 will cover the 
contamination caused by the release of petroleum products from several Leaking 
Underground Storage Tanks (LUST), regulated under Part 213.  The EGLE Loan 
request in the amount of $887,349 is to cover contamination related to 
contaminated fill material deposited along the Boardman River and contaminated 
groundwater from an offsite dry-cleaning operation, regulated under Part 201,1994 
Act 451 of the Natural Resources Protection Act.  
 
 
50
2 
 
Based upon review of the application, the costs, and the benefits to the community 
to address contamination on an Eligible Property the following is recommended: 
 
RECOMMENDATIONS: 
 
Approval of the EGLE Grant Application by the GTCBRA by resolution. 
 
Approval of the EGLE Loan Application as requested in the attached resolution, 
which includes the recommendation for the EGLE Loan to be approved by the GTC 
Board of Commissioners (GTCBOC), allowing the GTCBRA to apply on behalf of the 
GTCBOC for which their support and recommendation is required.  
51
52
53
54
 
STATE OF MICHIGAN 
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY 
LANSING 
 
RICK SNYDER 
GOVERNOR 
C. HEIDI GRETHER 
DIRECTOR 
 
 
August 22, 2018 
 
 
Grand Traverse County 
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority 
400 Boardman Avenue 
Traverse City, Michigan 49684 
 
SUBJECT: 
Brownfield Redevelopment Loan Amendment #1 
 
 
124 W. Front/Traverse City Place 
 
 
Tracking Code #2016-1266 
 
The Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) received your request for an extension of the Brownfield 
Redevelopment Loan for the 124 W. Front project in downtown Traverse City.  We support an extension 
to the county in order to acquire a new developer and complete the work.  We propose revising the 
contract end date from September 9, 2018 to September 9, 2019.  
 
Please note that the end date of your current contract is September 9, 2018. The amendment to 
extend the contract must be signed by both your agency and the DEQ prior to the end date, or the contract 
will expire and cannot be extended.  Attached is the contract amendment that reflects the new end date.  
Please sign and return no later than August 29, 2018, to ensure that the amendment will be processed 
before the expiration date. 
 
To return via email: 
1.  Print and sign the attached document 
2.  Scan the signed version 
3.  Email the scanned file to both myself and barksj@michigan.gov 
 
After the amendments have been signed by the DEQ, a signed original will be returned to you for your 
records. 
 
Thank you for keeping us informed of the project status.  If you have any questions, please contact me. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Julie Lowe, Brownfield Redevelopment Coordinator 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brownfield Redevelopment Program Unit 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Remediation and Redevelopment Division 
 
 
 
 
 
 
989-619-0617 
 
Enclosures 
cc: 
Ms. Carrie Geyer, DEQ 
 
Ms. Anastasia Lundy, DEQ  
 
File #2016-1266 
55
56
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESOLUTION NO.  
 
 
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING GRAND TRAVERSE COUNTY BROWNFIELD 
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (GTCBRA) TO MAKE APPLICATION FOR AN EGLE 
BROWNFIELD GRANT 
FOR 124 WEST FRONT STREET REDEVELOPMENT 
 
WHEREAS the Michigan Department of Environmental, Great Lakes and Energy (EGLE) provides 
grants and loans to communities through its Brownfield Redevelopment Grant and Loan program to 
encourage reuse of brownfield properties by funding Environmental Department Specific Eligible 
Activities on Eligible Properties; and 
 
WHEREAS, the redevelopment of the 124 West Front Street property in Traverse City as a mixed-
use development is seeking an EGLE Grant to address the Part 213 Cleanup and Closure requirements 
in order to redevelop the Eligible Property; and 
 
WHEREAS, the project effectively meets the Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment 
Authority criteria of addressing the nature, extent of contamination, including threat to water quality 
and public health, and the extent to which the contamination will be remedied; need for financial 
assistance; local financial commitment; site reuse; and economic development and job creation; and 
 
WHEREAS, the proposed development is consistent with local development plans and City of 
Traverse City master plan and zoning ordinance; and 
 
WHEREAS, the site for which grant funds are being requested is designated as a "Facility" under 
Part 213, and neither the Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority or the 
beneficiaries of the grant are liable parties; and 
 
WHEREAS, the proposed project will be undertaken if a grant is awarded; 
NOW, THEREFORE, Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority, Michigan, 
resolves as follows: 
57
Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority  
Resolution No.  
Page 2 of 2 
 
 
1. 
Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment authorizes the submittal of a Brownfield 
Redevelopment Grant application to the Michigan Department of Environmental, Great Lakes and 
Energy for Part 213 Corrective Actions, Closure Report, Due Care Clean-up Activities related to 
contaminated soil and groundwater disposal and installation of a vapor mitigation system, for the 
redevelopment of the 124 W. Front Street Property; and 
 
2. 
Should any section, clause or phrase of this Resolution be declared by the courts to be invalid, the 
same shall not affect the validity of this Resolution as a whole nor any part thereof, other than the part 
so declared to be invalid. 
 
3. 
Any prior resolution, or any part thereof, in conflict with any of the provisions of this Resolution 
is hereby repealed, but only to the extent necessary to give this Resolution full force and effect. 
 
Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority 
(GTCBRA) members: 
 
YEAS: ___________________ 
NAYS: ___________________ 
   
        
 
Signature GTCBRA Chairperson – Gary Howe: 
 
 
__________________________________________ 
 
 
 
STATE OF MICHIGAN 
      ) 
) 
COUNTY OF GRAND TRAVERSE 
      ) 
 
 
I, Bonnie Scheele, County Clerk of Grand Traverse County, hereby certify this to be a true and complete 
copy of Resolution No.__________, duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Grand Traverse County 
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority held on the 11th day of June, 2020. 
 
 
Bonnie Scheele, Clerk 
Grand Travers County Governmental Center 
400 Boardman Ave., Ste. 101 
Traverse City, MI 49684 
58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESOLUTION NO. 2020- 
 
 
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING GRAND TRAVERSE COUNTY BROWNFIELD 
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY TO SUBMIT AN EGLE BROWNFIELD LOAN 
APPLICATION FOR  
124 WEST FRONT STREET REDEVELOPMENT 
 
WHEREAS the Michigan Department of Environmental, Great Lakes and Energy (EGLE) provides 
grants and loans to communities through its Brownfield Redevelopment Grant and Loan program to 
encourage reuse of brownfield properties by funding Environmental Department Specific Eligible 
Activities; and 
 
WHEREAS, the redevelopment of the 124 West Front Street property in Traverse City as a mixed-
use development is seeking a EGLE Loan to address the contamination defined under Part 201, 1994 
Act 451 due care requirements; and 
 
WHEREAS, the project effectively meets the Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment 
Authority (GTCBRA) criteria of addressing the nature, extent of contamination, including threat to 
water quality and public health, and the extent to which the contamination will be remedied, need for 
financial assistance, local financial commitment, site reuse, and economic development and job 
creation; and 
 
WHEREAS, the proposed development is consistent with local development plans and City of 
Traverse City master plan and zoning ordinance; and 
 
WHEREAS, the site for which loan funds are being requested is designated as a "Facility" under Part 
201, 1994 Act 451, and neither Grand Traverse County Board of Commissioners, Grand Traverse 
County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority or the recipient of the grant are liable parties; and 
 
WHEREAS, the proposed project will be undertaken if a Loan is awarded; 
 
WHEREAS, a portion of the EGLE financial support may include  a  Brownfield  Loan and, if so, the 
EGLE requires that Board of Commissioners accepts and commits to repay the loan, based on the terms 
and conditions of the loan agreement and provide financial assurance, with the provision that the GTCBRA 
shall commit to all repayment of said Loan through Tax Increment Revenues generated on the property and 
as necessary payments made through GTCBRA Local Brownfield Revolving Fund (LBRF), which has 
sufficient funds in which to do so; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority, Michigan, 
resolves as follows: 
59
 
Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority  
Resolution No. 2019-3293 
Page 2 
 
 
The Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority authorizes the submittal of a 
Brownfield Redevelopment Loan application to the Michigan Department of Environmental, Great 
Lakes and Energy for Department Specific Eligible Activities that may include BEA activities, due 
care and response activities for the mixed-use redevelopment of the 124 W. Front Street Property, to 
the Board of Commissioners to approve this application. 
 
The Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority accepts and commits to repay the 
Brownfield Redevelopment Loan up to $887,349 based on the terms and conditions of the loan 
agreement, with revenues for loan repayment derived from the capture of increased  incremental  
revenues  generated  by  additional private investment through the approval of an approved Brownfield 
Plan and Act 381 Work Plan; or if adequate Brownfield tax increment revenues are not available, from 
the Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Authorities Local Brownfield Revolving Fund 
(LBRF), in lieu of revenue sharing from the County, as appropriate; and, 
 
Should any section, clause or phrase of this Resolution be declared by the courts to be invalid, the 
same shall not affect the validity of this Resolution as a whole nor any part thereof, other than the part 
so declared to be invalid. 
 
Any prior resolution, or any part thereof, in conflict with any of the provisions of this Resolution is 
hereby repealed, but only to the extent necessary to give this Resolution full force and effect. 
 
Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (GTCBRA) members: 
 
 
YEAS: ___________________ 
 
NAYS: 
_______________________ 
 
 
 
Signature GTCBRA Chairperson – Gary Howe: 
 
 
         ______________________________________________ 
 
 
STATE OF MICHIGAN 
) 
) 
COUNTY OF GRAND TRAVERSE 
) 
 
 
I, Bonnie Scheele, County Clerk of Grand Traverse County, hereby certify this to be a true and complete 
copy of Resolution No. __________, duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Grand Traverse County 
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority held on the 11th day of June, 2020. 
 
 
Bonnie Scheele, Clerk 
Grand Travers County 
Governmental Center 
400 Boardman Ave., Ste. 101 
Traverse City, MI 49684 
 
60
 
 
 
EQP3581 
 
 
7/26/2019 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The boxes below will expand to accommodate your responses. If you have questions about the 
application, please contact your brownfield coordinator for help. 
 
 
Applicant and Project Information 
Amount Requested $1,480,901 ($593,552 Grant;  $887,349 Loan) 
Project / Site Information 
 
Project Name: 124 W. Front Street 
Address (include zip code): 124 & 290 W. Front Street, Traverse City, 
Michigan 49684 
Longitude (to 8 digits): -85.625516° 
Latitude (to 8 digits): 44.764361° 
State House District: 104 – Larry Inman 
State Senate District: 37 – Wayne A Schmidt 
Size of Property (in Acres): 0.94 Acres (40,857 SF)  
Property tax ID(s): 28-51-706-004-00 (124 W. Front St.) and 28-51-706-
006-00 (290 W. Front St.) 
Property Owner’s name, address, and phone number:  
124 W. Front St.--Federated Properties 124, LLC, 30955 Northwestern 
Hwy., Farmington, MI 48334, 248.932.9830 (Briana Hamady) and 290 
W. Front St.--Great Lakes Central Properties 124, LLC, 30955 
Northwestern Hwy., Farmington, MI 48334, 248.932.9830 (Briana 
Hamady) 
Date Property was Acquired: 124 W. Front St.—12/03/2014;  290 W. 
Front St.—03/10/2015 
How was Property Acquired? (purchase, tax reversion, inheritance. etc.) 
Purchase – the current Owners of the two parcels, 124 and 290 W. Front 
St., purchased the property and the developer, Great Lakes Capital, has 
the two parcels under contract to acquire through the end of July 2020. 
Applicant Information 
Name: Grand Traverse County  
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (GTCBRA)  
400 Boardman Avenue 
Traverse City, MI 49684 
Federal ID Number: 38-6004852 
Nate Alger 
GRANT AND LOAN 
APPLICATION  
 
GRETCHEN WHITMER, GOVERNOR  
LIESL EICHLER CLARK, DIRECTOR 
http://www.michigan.gov/egle     #mibrownfields 
 
 
61
 
 
 
EQP3581 
 
 
7/26/2019 
 
2
County Administrator 
Grand Traverse County Administration 
400 Boardman Avenue 
Traverse City, MI 49684 
Office: 231 922-4780 
nalger@grandtraverse.org 
 
Anne Jamieson-Urena 
GTCBRA Director 
248-762-8701 
ajamieson@etcinc.com 
Please provide a one-
paragraph summary of the 
project and purpose of the 
brownfield funding. 
The proposed $26 million mixed-use development is located in a core 
area of downtown Traverse City. The project’s 4-story building design with 
one level of underground integrated parking includes: 75 below grade 
vehicle parking spaces and 5 motorcycle parking spaces for the 
residential units, 10,153 square feet first floor street level 
retail/commercial lease space on W. Front Street, and 80 market rate 
residential apartment units facing the adjacent 300 feet of frontage on 
the Boardman River with a U-shaped courtyard and W. Front Street. The 
Brownfield funding will assist the Project to compete and become 
financially viable with comparable greenfield sites and allow the Project 
to be developed. The Site Plan, architectural renderings and design 
drawings are included in Attachment B.  Attachment F contains a 
Detailed Project Summary. 
 
 
Environmental Outcomes 
Known contaminants  Petroleum, VOCs, PNAs and Lead 
Is the property known to be 
contaminated? ☒ Yes       ☐ No 
Is the current owner currently using 
or operating on the property? ☐ Yes       ☒ No 
Date they began to use the property, 
if applicable: 
List other current property 
occupants/operators, if any, and 
date they began operations:  
  
 
Is the property vacant? 
Not applicable-Vacant land for real estate investment 
purposes 
None  
124 W. Front St.--Federated Properties 124, LLC, 30955 
Northwestern Hwy., Farmington, MI 48334 
290 W. Front St.--Great Lakes Central Properties 124, LLC, 
30955 Northwestern Hwy., Farmington, MI 48334 
☒ Yes        ☐ No 
Was a Baseline Environmental 
Assessment (BEA) completed by the 
current owner? 
☒ Yes        ☐ No   
62
 
 
 
EQP3581 
 
 
7/26/2019 
 
3
Did the applicant cause or contribute 
to contamination that is known or 
may be discovered at the project 
site? 
To the best of my knowledge, the applicant: 
☒ Did NOT cause or contribute to contamination    
☐  May have caused or contributed to contamination   
Did the developer cause or 
contribute to contamination that is 
known or may be discovered at the 
project site? (Leave blank if not 
applicable) 
To the best of my knowledge, the developer: 
☒ Did not cause or contribute to contamination   
☐ May have caused or contributed to contamination  
Indicate which eligible response activities the requested grant/loan will pay for. (Response activities 
are defined on page 2 of the grant/loan instructions under Eligible Projects.) If your project does not 
have a committed developer, or it is suspected (not confirmed) of being contaminated, it is eligible 
only for an environmental site assessment; Phase I/II investigation; lead, asbestos, and mold survey; 
BEA; and due care planning. 
☒ Environmental site assessment 
☒ Phase I/Phase II Investigation 
☒ Baseline Environmental Assessment (BEA)  
☒ Due Care Planning 
☐ Asbestos, lead, or mold survey 
 
☒ Due Care Activities 
☒ Vapor Mitigation 
☒ Other Environmental Response Activities 
☐ Interim Response Action 
 
 
 
☐ Demolition 
 
 
1. Briefly list current and historical uses of the property, with dates if known. 
 
The 124 W. Front Street (51-706-004-00) site was developed between 1899 and 1904 as a 
candy factory and by 1910 was a machine shop. By 1920 through the mid-2000s, the property 
was used for automotive repair services (Grand Traverse Auto) as well as a gasoline filling 
station between the late 1920s through at least 1950, both of which employed underground 
fuel storage tanks. In May 1957 a building permit was pulled to rebuild the building due to fire 
damage.  The Site was cleared of all structures in May 2007 with some sheet piling installed 
along Front Street and has remained vacant to present day. 
 
The site has a lengthy history and was most notably recognized as the location of the former 
Grand Traverse Auto company.  Other services included auto body repair and painting.  The 
proposed redevelopment also includes the 290 W. Front Street property (replat from – 004 to 
51-706-006-00) which has been a parking area for as long as the records show and was 
previously owned by J&S Hamburg.   
 
2. Describe the environmental condition of the property. Describe known contamination, or if 
contamination is suspected, why it is suspected. Indicate whether any underground storage 
tanks are present or have been removed from the property. 
 
Structures formerly located at the property include above ground storage tanks (ASTs), 
underground storage tanks (USTs), two parts washers, three trench drains, a former in-ground 
hydraulic hoist located in the boiler room, a number of electric and hydraulic hoists and floor 
drains throughout the service center, a former oil/water separator, and two paint rooms. Both 
124 W. Front Street and 290 W. Front Street properties have multiple BEAs that were prepared 
for prior ownership.   
63
 
 
 
EQP3581 
 
 
7/26/2019 
 
4
 
The 290 W. Front Street property is also impacted by on-site contaminated fill material as well 
as off-site groundwater impacts that have migrated on-site.   
 
Reportedly a UST was removed from the Western portion of the 124 W. Front Street property in 
the late 1980s, which is believed to be associated with the former garage and filling station.  
There was no report of a release from that tank removal, but it is also not clearly documented. 
 
A release was confirmed and reported to the MDEQ during the removal of a former 500-gallon 
waste oil UST from the 124 Front Street Site in 1992.  A limited soil remediation was conducted, 
and verification samples showed no exceedances of petroleum related compounds.  Lead was 
found at elevated concentrations in several borings around the site during the initial and 
subsequent investigations related to the UST, indicating fill material was likely the source of 
lead.  Moreover, at the time of the UST closure assessment, concentrations of 
tetrachloroethylene (PCE), vinyl chloride, and 1,1,2-tricholoethylene in the groundwater 
exceeded then current Part 201 Residential Cleanup Criteria.  These constituents are now 
understood to be associated with the migration of contamination from a historic release at the 
One-Hour Martinizing property to the south of the Site and under remediation.  A map showing 
the location with investigation results is included in Attachment A - Environmental Maps and 
Data Tables.  A restrictive covenant to prohibit the potable use of groundwater at the property 
was reportedly documented with the County. The UST release remains open, but it is the goal of 
this project to bring this site to a restricted closure.   
 
In 2005, CRA conducted a Phase II ESA that documented the presence of contamination in soil 
and groundwater in excess of MDEQ Generic Cleanup Criteria at 124 W. Front Street.  Soil is 
mainly found during this investigation to be impacted by lead, which according to 
documentation and correspondence files with MDEQ, is attributed to contaminated fill material 
that was imported and placed on-site. A map of the 2005 sample locations and summary of soil 
and groundwater exceedances is included in Attachment A.   
 
A summary of exceedances from 2005 is provided in the table below: 
 
Constituent (VOCs) 
Media 
Criteria Exceedance 
Sample Location 
Cis-1,2,dichloroethylene 
Groundwater 
DW 
SB-2 
Ethylbenzene 
Groundwater 
DW and GSI 
SB-2 
GSI 
SB-7 
Methylene Chloride 
Groundwater 
DW 
SB-1 
Tetrachloroethylene 
Soil 
DWP 
SB-22 
Groundwater 
DW 
SB-9, SB-2, SB-11, SB-6, SB-5, MW-20 
DW and GSI 
SB-1, SB-7, MW-21, MW-23, MW-22 
Trichloroethylene 
Groundwater 
DW 
SB-2, MW-21, MW-22, MW-23 
Vinyl Chloride 
Groundwater 
DW 
SB-3, SB-9 
DW and GSI* 
SB-10, SB-2 
Xylenes (total) 
Groundwater 
GSI 
SB-2, SB-13, SB-6, MW-23 
DW and GSI 
SB-2, SB-13 
Naphthalene 
Groundwater 
GSI 
SB-2, SB-13 
Constituent (Metals) 
Media 
Criteria Exceedance 
Sample Location 
Lead (total) 
Soil 
DWP 
SB-10 
Groundwater 
DW and GSI 
SB-13, MW-24 
DW 
SB-9, SB-2, SB-1, SB-11 
Lead (fine) 
Soil 
DC 
SB-9, SB-10, SB-14, SB-2, SB-13 
Lead (coarse) 
Soil  
DC 
SB-10 
DW = Drinking Water 
DWP = Drinking Water Protection    
DC = Direct Contact 
GSI = Groundwater Surfacewater Interface     
64
 
 
 
EQP3581 
 
 
7/26/2019 
 
5
 
During the demolition of the building in the summer of 2007, a 10,000-gallon leaking UST 
(LUST) was discovered and removed.  Soil samples were collected by CRA as part of the tank 
removal activities; however, sample locations, results, and maps have not been successfully 
located.  The LUST release remains open but can likely be closed out during the redevelopment 
activities and documentation.     
 
A Due Care investigation was conducted in 2007 by Global Environmental Engineering for the 
124 W. Front Street property.  The findings confirmed the 2005 results and added several 
petroleum and/or waste oil related exceedances in soil including; 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene, 
1,3,5-trimethylbenzene, benzo(a)pyrene, fluoranthene, and phenanthrene.  The 2007 
investigation also detected 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene and 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene in groundwater 
at concentrations above the GSI.  A summary of the 2007 exceedances is present below:   
 
Soil Facility Compounds 
Constituents 
Cleanup Criteria 
Analytical Result 
Sample Location 
VOCs 
Xylenes 
700 (GSI) 
857 
SB-50 
1,2,4-Trimethylebenzene 
570 (GSI) 
1,098 
SB-50 
1,3,5- Trimethylebenzene 
1,100 (GSI) 
4,490 
SB-50 
PNAs 
Benzo(a)pyrene 
2,000 (DC) 
11,600 
SB-59 
Flouranthene 
5,500 (GSI) 
28,230 
SB-59 
Phenanthrene 
5,300 (GSI) 
19,340 
SB-59 
Metals 
Lead 
400,000 (DC) 
1,490,000 (fine 
fraction) 
RB-1 
 
Groundwater Facility Compounds 
Analyte 
Cleanup Criteria 
Analytical Result 
Sample Location 
VOCs 
Xylenes 
35 (GSI) 
249 
SB-50 
1,2,4-Trimethylebenzene 
17 (GSI) 
140 
SB-50 
1,3,5- Trimethylbenzene 
45 (GSI) 
56 
SB-50 
Naphthalene 
13 (GSI) 
28 
SB-50 
Tetrachloroethylene 
5 (DW) 
55 
SB-52 
 
Most recently a limited Due Care investigation was conducted in 2017 to further investigate the 
extent of impacted soil and groundwater, and the potential for impacts to soil gas.  Results 
showed the soil is impacted with metals, VOCs, and SVOCs at various depths and locations 
around the site.  Groundwater remains impacted with VOCs from both the petroleum releases 
and an off-site source. Petroleum sheen and odor were observed in the groundwater samples 
collected on site.   
 
Volatilization from contaminated soil and groundwater has also impaired the subsurface soil 
gas, which exceeds the residential volatilization to indoor air screening levels for benzene.  A 
complete review of existing and prior investigation data will be required to further refine the 
scope and costs of environmental activities expected for the redevelopment. 
 
See Attachment A, Environmental Maps and Data Tables, Table 1 and Table 2 for 2017 Soil and 
Groundwater Analytical Summaries, respectively.  The 2017 OMPC figures show the locations of 
the soil borings, soil gas locations, and monitoring wells. 
 
3. Describe the response activities that are believed to be necessary for redevelopment and reuse 
of the property. (Response activities are defined in the grant/loan instructions under Eligible 
65
 
 
 
EQP3581 
 
 
7/26/2019 
 
6
Projects.) Include an estimated cost for each item in the Sources of Project Funding Table 
below. 
 
Due Diligence:  A new Phase I Environmental Site Assessment (ESA) and Baseline 
Environmental Assessment (BEA) will be conducted as part of the property acquisition for 
redevelopment.  
 
LUST Closure:  The developer plans to close out the 2 old LUST cases, based on the prior 
reports that suggest closure was near but never completed.   
 
Due Care Planning:  Due to the presence of soil, groundwater, and soil gas exceedances, 
additional due care planning is required and will be incorporated into the redevelopment plans 
and approvals, all of which will be reviewed and vetted with EGLE to come up with a sampling 
and analysis plan.  Site-specific VIAC for vapor intrusion evaluation will be requested as part of 
the Due Care planning.  
 
Soil Disposal:  Based on the land balance analysis from the developer’s architect and 
engineer’s preliminary take-offs which include one foot below the river level floor elevation, 
foundations and 61 foundation piles, and utilities, an estimated total of 7,850 cubic yards of 
contaminated soil will need to be removed from the site.  According to the 2017 Due Care 
Investigation conducted by Otwell Mawby, the site soil passed a TCLP laboratory test for the high 
concentrations of lead and therefore it is expected that all of the excess contaminated soil will 
characterized as nonhazardous.  Transport and disposal of non-hazardous contaminated soil is 
proposed to be sent to a Type II landfill at an estimated rate of $50/cubic yard.  The soil in the 
western portion of the property is believed to be primarily impacted by historic fueling 
operations and oil from a leaking UST.  Furthermore, contaminated soil was discovered under 
the central portion of the former building due to the release from the 10,000-gallon petroleum 
UST.  Therefore, we are requesting a percentage of the total soil transportation and disposal 
from 124 W. Front Street be covered under the Part 213 Refined Petroleum Fund (RPF) and the 
balance be covered under Part 201 funding based on the existing data collected over a span of 
20 years.  Based on the available data we concluded that 30% of the total (2,600 cubic yards) 
is attributable to releases from the former LUSTs located on the property and therefore should 
be covered under Part 213 - RPF and 70% of the total (5,250 cubic yards) allocated to Part 201 
funding.      
 
Dewatering: Dewatering will be necessary during construction due to the shallow groundwater 
and proximity to the Boardman River.  However, previous investigations and contaminants from 
the off-site dry cleaner will require that further analysis and testing be performed prior disposing 
of the water at the WWTP or discharging it under an NPDES permit.  The prior investigations 
have identified the widespread presence of trichloroethylene (TCE) and PCE in groundwater as a 
result of migration from an upgradient source, along with site-related constituents include 
dichloroethylene, ethylbenzene, methylene chloride, vinyl chloride, xylenes, naphthalene and 
lead in various locations. The 2 LUST cases remain open for petroleum release which have 
impaired groundwater.  Consequently, we are requesting to split the eligible dewatering costs 
50/50 between the RPF and Part 201 funding sources.    
 
The cost estimates provided in this proposal include assumptions of volume, treatment of the 
VOCs, SVOCs, as well as metals, and discharge of the treated water in the most efficient and 
economical manner, either to the river through an NPDES permit or discharge to the WWTP.  
Prior to disposal of the groundwater an analysis will be completed to verify the best method in 
which to manage the groundwater disposal. In addition, the delta will be calculated between 
normal greenfield and brownfield conditions for groundwater disposal and only the incremental 
increase in cost between the two will be requested for support under the Grant and/or Loan. 
66
 
 
 
EQP3581 
 
 
7/26/2019 
 
7
 
A temporary dewatering system will be installed during excavation, construction of the building 
foundation and lower level, and installation of the waterproofing/vapor barrier system.  Based 
upon the groundwater levels and planned depth of the excavation and lower level construction, 
estimated groundwater volumes during dewatering operations is anticipated to be 
approximately 150,000 gallons per day for approximately 100 days for a total estimated volume 
of 15,000,000 gallons.  The proximity of the Boardman River directly adjacent to the property 
creates special challenges to dewatering for construction.  Sheet piling will be necessary and 
careful management and coordination of dewatering and construction will be necessary to 
ensure effective construction and cost.  Additional analysis and engineering will determine the 
most effective lowest cost techniques for dewatering activities to lower the groundwater table 
and to select the method for on-site pre-treatment and discharge location.  The only costs 
included in this application for consideration by EGLE are the on-site pre-treatment and 
discharge costs due to contamination. The physical act/method of dewatering liquid 
management is not part of this application.   
 
Vapor Mitigation System and Protective Barrier:  Previous soil, soil gas, and groundwater 
investigations have indicated the need for a protective barrier system of the proposed lower 
level of the parking garage. Soil gas samples collected in 2017 by OMPC, found petroleum 
related compounds in all 6 locations across the site (SG-1 through SG-6).  CVOCs were also 
detected in 2 of the soil gas samples (SG-5 & SG-6).  The soil gas sampling was not 
comprehensive and only provides glimpse of what seasonal conditions may be.  Furthermore, 
shallow groundwater is known to be impacted with CVOCs below and in close proximity to the 
site, which poses a VI risk.  Therefore, we are requesting to split the vapor mitigation 
investigation and implementation costs 50/50 between the RPF and Part 201 funding sources.     
 
The need for a vapor barrier below the entire building needs to be further evaluated with EGLEs 
VI team, since a significant portion of the source soil will be removed, and a large amount of 
contaminated groundwater will be discharged as well.  Another concern is that the lower level is 
a parking garage should require air treatment due to vehicle exhaust.  The exhaust fans and 
open ventilation may be a sufficient engineering control to mitigate vapor intrusion concerns, 
although this also needs to be evaluated by EGLEs VI team to determine the required extent of 
a vapor barrier in areas such as the elevator shaft, etc.  Further soil gas sampling should be 
conducted to show the need for the vapor barrier and additional soil gas samples be taken in 
areas where contaminated soil and or groundwater are expected to remain after development 
activities and in the area where the elevator shaft is constructed. 
 
The vapor mitigation barrier system will be installed beneath the lower levels slab floor and 
elevator shaft of the building and wrapped around the sides of the building. Please note the 
cost of the waterproof membrane to protect the building from water instruction is not being 
requested as part of the proposal.  A vapor mitigation barrier system will consist of a chemically 
resistant vapor barrier such as a GeoSeal system.  The total estimate area for the vapor barrier 
is 35,000 square feet.  This estimate is just that an estimate for budgeting purposes.  The 
determination of the extent of the vapor barrier will be evaluated in cooperation with EGLE to 
verify that all possible pathways for vapor intrusion have been accounted for in the below 
ground garage, which typically includes elevator shafts, piping, etc.  
 
Site Management:  In order to meet the Due Care Plan requirements, an Environmental 
Construction Management Plan (ECMP) will be prepared and provided to each of the 
subcontractors that may come in contact with impacted soils, groundwater and/or 
contaminated soil vapors that will provide specific measures to be taken to meet due care 
obligations. Costs for this will also be split 50/50 between the RPF and Part 201 funding. 
 
67
 
 
 
EQP3581 
 
 
7/26/2019 
 
8
Health and Safety Plan:  A site specific Health and Safety Plan (HASP) will be completed for 
redevelopment at the Property that will include authorized personnel and responsibilities, 
proposed activities, personal protective equipment, decontamination procedures, work zone 
restrictions and delineations, personal protection upgrade/downgrade action limits, emergency 
information and contacts, incident documentation procedures, and contingency plans.  Costs 
for this will also be split 50/50 between the RPF and Part 201 funding.  
 
Environmental Oversight and Inspections:  Qualified environmental professionals will be on-site 
throughout the key excavation, dewatering and initial construction phases (including 
construction of the vapor mitigation system) to ensure that the procedures outlined in the 
Environmental Construction Management Plan are being met.  Oversight will be only be utilized 
“as-necessary” to limit the amount of funding required under this task.    
 
4. If a grant or loan will be used for demolition or partial demolition of a building or other structure, 
describe its condition and reason for demolition. Does it present a health or safety threat? Does 
the structure impede the proposed environmental response activities or reuse of the property?   
 
No buildings or structures on the Property remain. 
 
 
 
Economic Outcomes 
 
Permanent jobs created: 
 (not construction jobs)  
Full-time:  20 FTE 
Part-time:  15 
 
Capital 
investment  $26 million 
Current State Equalized Value (SEV)  $1,559,200 
Estimated post-development SEV $9,742,600 (real property only pending final reuse plans) 
Proposed or potential new 
development 
Mixed-Use Retail/Commercial/Market Rate Residential 
Apartments Development 
Is a developer committed to the 
project? 
  If yes, developer name: 
☒ Yes            ☐ No 
 
Great Lakes Capital, 112 W. Jefferson Blvd., Suite 200, 
South Bend, IN 46601, Jeff Smoke, Managing Director & 
Principal; 574.855.5700; jsmoke@greatlakescapital.com 
 
1. Describe the redevelopment or potential for redevelopment and how it will result in new jobs, 
investment of private funds to improve or reuse the property, and/or an increase in the 
community’s tax base.  
 
The proposed new use is a $26 million Mixed-Use Development – First Floor Retail/Commercial 
with approximately 80 Market Rate Residential Apartments (Floors 1-4) with 10,153 SF of retail 
which is atop a 75-vehicle integrated underground parking structure illustrated in Attachment B, 
Site Plan, Architectural Renderings and Design Drawings. The new investment on a long vacant 
“hole in the ground” in downtown will help complete a key part of downtown Traverse City, the 
DDA and the GTCBRA, and also fulfill a large need for market rate apartments.  The new 
residents to downtown will help all existing retail and restaurant businesses thrive.  It is 
68
 
 
 
EQP3581 
 
 
7/26/2019 
 
9
estimated that 20 Full Time Equivalent (FTE) Jobs and 15 Part Time Jobs will be created.  The 
Project will result in a significant increase in tax base to downtown. 
 
2. Describe the status of the developer’s financing for the project. Leave blank if the project does 
not have a committed developer. 
 
The Developer has received a financing proposal from a committed lender (See Attachment C 
for the lenders support letter and a summary of terms and indicative pricing). 
 
3. If there is a purchase agreement or a development agreement, briefly describe the terms of the 
agreement and attach a copy as Attachment 5 (see below). Leave blank if the project does not 
have a committed developer. 
 
The developer, Great Lakes Capital, has the two parcels 124 and 290 W. Front St., under 
contract to acquire through the end of July 2020. 
 
4. If a developer is committed to the project, provide a brief summary of the developer’s business 
experience, including any other businesses, terms and conditions of their participation in the 
project, bankruptcies, and civil or criminal enforcement actions related to environmental 
violations. Leave blank if the project does not have a committed developer. 
 
The Developer, Co-Developer and General Contractor have tremendous experience and 
capabilities (See Attachment D and E for more information). The Developer, Co-Developer and 
General Contractor do not have any bankruptcies, and civil or criminal enforcement actions 
related to environmental violations. 
 
5. Are there any known legal, access, or title issues, liable party actions, or liens or easements on 
the property that could affect the proposed economic development? 
 
None known. 
 
 
 
Community Outcomes 
 
 
Is existing infrastructure 
used? 
☒ Yes  
☐ No 
Property zoning  Current: C-4c 
Projected: C-4c 
 
1. Describe how the proposed development fits into the community’s development plans, and how 
it will affect the community and the area immediately surrounding the project site.  Will the 
project result in any social or community benefits?  Is the community in which the project is 
located economically disadvantaged or depressed? 
 
The proposed mixed-use redevelopment Project will bring a significant investment and major 
improvement to downtown, add to the economic vitality of downtown, spur additional 
development in downtown, add to the success of the city’s broader downtown development 
strategy, bring quality housing to downtown and fill the downtown’s missing middle housing type 
that can support city services and amenities within walking distance, bring new market rate 
housing to downtown (limited market rate rental housing is available in downtown), and result in 
community and municipal benefits of increased property taxes on the Property. The community in 
which the project is located is not economically disadvantaged or depressed. 
 
69
 
 
 
EQP3581 
 
 
7/26/2019 
 
10
2. Describe the neighborhood around the property and how the development will enhance the 
neighborhood. Are there other viable commercial businesses nearby?  Is there a surplus of 
vacant, developable land in the community and/or the neighborhood, or is the supply of 
developable land relatively low? Is the demand for property in the community and/or 
neighborhood high?   
 
Describe the neighborhood around the property – To the east is the central business district. To 
the west, the West End business district and its Gourmet Alley. Across the river to the south is 
the historic Sixth Street residential neighborhood, and to the North, the trendy Warehouse 
District. Just beyond that, the Open Space, community beach volleyball courts and the iconic 
West Grand Traverse Bay - all within a short walk.  The Property is located in the heart of the 
City’s TIF97 DDA District. 
 
Are there other viable commercial businesses nearby? - There are many locally owned 
commercial businesses in this area that are restaurants, gyms, banks, offices, retail shops, 
grocery, and small business startups. 
 
Is there a large amount of vacant, developable land in the community and/or the neighborhood, 
or is the supply of developable land relatively low? – Currently, available similar development 
land is low in this downtown location.  There are currently only 2 others similarly sized and 
located parcels currently attempting their own redevelopment efforts within 2 blocks of the 
subject Property.  Opportunities for small infill development are more prevalent in the City’s 
portion of this DDA District than properties outside the DDA District limits. 
 
Is the demand for property in the community and/or neighborhood high? - The demand for this 
type of downtown property is high. Very few parcels within the City of this size have the current 
zoning district allowing the anticipated form of development. 
 
3. Describe how you will announce and promote the grant/loan project. EGLE’s contribution to the 
project must be acknowledged either in social media (the applicant’s and/or the developer’s), 
the local press, signage at the property, and/or other methods. 
 
The Applicant Grand Traverse County Brownfield Redevelopment Authority.  To promote the 
EGLE Grant/Loan support, the Developer will have a sign onsite, include the award on their 
website as well as having their marketing specialist do a social media blast. 
 
4. EGLE writes a press release for every new grant and loan project. If you would like a quote 
included in your project’s press release, please provide one here. The quote can be from the 
grantee/borrower or the developer.  
 
Applicant’s Quote: GTCBRA Quote in process 
 
Developer’s Quote: “EGLE has been instrumental in the redevelopment of this property, without 
their grant and loan we would not have been able to proceed with the development.” 
 
5. Provide a project schedule that lists project benchmarks and when they are expected to begin 
and end.  
 
See below table broken down between EGLE-Funded activities and TIF and EGLE Grant/Loan 
Funded activities: 
 
 
 
70
 
 
 
EQP3581 
 
 
7/26/2019 
 
11
Tasks - Brownfield TIF and EGLE Grant/Loan Funded Activity Areas 
Due Date 
GTCBRA Meeting to Receive approval of EGLE Grant/Loan 
Application for submittal to EGLE. GTCBRA Resolution and GTCBRA 
Letter from GTCBRA Chair indicating County Project Support and 
Compliance Submitted to EGLE for Grant/Loan Application. 
06/11/2020 
GTCBRA Transmits EGLE Grant/Loan Application to EGLE  
06/12/2020 
GTC Board of Commissioners Resolution Submitted to EGLE for 
Loan Application 
06/TBD/2020 
GTCBRA Meeting to Receive Approval of Brownfield Plan Budget Line 
Adjustment 
07/23/2020 
Brownfield Reimbursement Agreement Executed 
08/01/2019 
Assuming EGLE Grant/Loan Award Prior to August 2020 
 
Grant/Loan Agreements Executed (anticipated) 
Four (4) Agreements in Total:    
1. EGLE/GTCBRA - for EGLE Loan;  
2. EGLE/GTCBRA - for EGLE Grant;  
3. GTCBRA/Developer – for EGLE Loan, and;  
4. GTCBRA/Developer – for EGLE Grant 
08/01/2020 
Prepare and Issue Bid Specifications 
08/03/2020 
Receive Bids, Evaluate Bids and Make Award Recommendation 
08/24/2020 
Award of Contract 
09/01/2020 
Excavation, transport, and disposal of contaminated soil 
09/30/2020 
Redevelopment Begins 
10/01/2020 
 
 
 
Local Commitment 
 
 
Describe the local government’s financial commitment to the project. Is the applicant willing to accept a 
grant and loan, or loan funding only?  Include any federal, state (other than the proposed grant and/or 
loan), or local incentives offered to the developer as part of the project.  If the local government is 
unable to make a financial commitment to the project, explain why. Include amounts in the Sources of 
Project Funding table below. 
 
The Downtown Development Authority is and continues to plan to invest millions into the project area 
and in nearby placemaking features, including an adjacent and contiguous multi-story pubic parking 
deck planned at 145 W. Front Street (across street from the project).  Parking Structure plans for this 
have been underway for more than 15 years.  The DDA in collaboration with the GTCBRA have identified 
specific projects within the DDA District (District) that will be supported with brownfield and DDA TIF. 
Currently, it is planned that the project will receive no less than $900,000 in Loans from 
GTCBRA/County that will be reimbursed with Brownfield TIF and up to $300,000 in Grant funds toward 
public infrastructure around the perimeter of the project. These projects will help position Downtown 
toward becoming an even greater downtown destination and place to live, shop and work. The DDA Plan 
includes activities which the DDA is eligible to spend tax increment revenue for enhancing, improving or 
redeveloping the District. Some of the DDA activities anticipated to be made available to this 
redevelopment project include Streetscape and Infrastructure Improvements. 
 
71
 
 
 
EQP3581 
 
 
7/26/2019 
 
12
Environmental Eligible Activity costs estimated at $950,999 are planned to support the Project with 
Brownfield Act 381 Tax Increment Financing (includes EGLE Loan costs payoff with TIF of $887,349).  
Non-Environmental Eligible Activity costs estimated at $3,197,929 are planned to support the Project 
with Brownfield Act 381 Tax Increment Financing.  Additional “gap financing” support from the Michigan 
Strategic Fund (MSF) Board in the form of a Michigan Community Revitalization Program (MCRP) Grant 
and/or Loan is estimated at $1,200,000. 
 
 
Sources of Project Funding 
 
List sources, uses, and amount of all funds committed to or anticipated for the economic development 
implementation project.  You may change the titles or categories if they don’t fit your project. 
In the BRA Funds column, please list any dollars committed by the BRA that will NOT be used to repay a 
Brownfield Redevelopment Loan.   
In the OTHER column, include federal dollars, other state grants, future sale proceeds, liable party 
contributions, etc. 
 
 
 
TASK 
EGLE GRANT                     
RPF/Part 213 
EGLE 
LOAN***                 
Part 201 
Phase I Environmental Site Assessment 
 
$4,000 
Phase II Environmental Site Assessment 
 
$10,000 
Site Assessment, Baseline Environmental Assessment (BEA) 
 
$7,000 
Investigation 
 
$25,000 
Transport / Disposal of Contaminated Soils, Sampling & Analysis 
$130,000 
$262,500 
Lead, Asbestos and Mold Survey  
 
 
Demolition and Abatement 
 
 
Response Activity Plan/Due Care Compliance 
$7,500 
$7,500 
Part 213 Closures Reporting 
$5,000 
 
Due Care Activity (Vapor Mitigation System-Design, Installation, Testing) 
$121,000 
$121,000 
Due Care Activity (Dewatering-Treatment and Disposal, Sampling & 
Analysis) 
$180,000 
$180,000 
Contingency (up to 15% of the Grant / Loan Award) 
$66,525 
$92,550 
Project Management, Work Plans and Reporting (10%) 
$51,003 
$70,955 
72
 
 
 
EQP3581 
 
 
7/26/2019 
 
13
TASK 
EGLE GRANT                     
RPF/Part 213 
EGLE 
LOAN***                 
Part 201 
3rd Party Environmental Oversight (up to 3% of the Grant / Loan Award)  
*GTCBRA  3rd Party Oversight Appointee  
$16,831 
$23,415 
Administration (up to 3% of the Grant / Loan Award) 
**GTCBRA Administration of the Grant/Loan 
$16,831 
$23,415 
TOTALS 
$594,689 
$827,335 
GRAND TOTAL 
$1,422,024 
 
NOTE: *When the response activities will be performed by the consulting firm used by the project developer, 
EGLE expects that the applicant will hire its own environmental oversight professional. Exceptions will be 
considered in low-risk situations on a case-by-case basis and must be requested in writing. The environmental 
oversight professional’s fees are eligible for reimbursement with the proposed grant or loan. Please include an 
environmental oversight professional in the budget if applicable. 
**GTCBRA administration. 
***Part 201 support was assumed to be in the form of a Loan from EGLE and as such that Loan would be 
required to be serviced by a Brownfield Act 381 Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Plan with available state and 
local tax increment revenues. 
 
 
Attachments 
 
 
Please attach the following to the completed funding application: 
 
1. A letter from the chief executive officer or highest-ranking appointed official indicating that the 
local unit of government supports the brownfield project and that the development project or 
proposed new use complies with all local zoning and planning ordinances. 
 
Exhibit A - Chief Executive Officer / Highest-ranking Appointed Official Letter 
 
2. A map or maps showing the location of the project area, site boundaries, buildings (please 
identify buildings or portions of buildings to be demolished), areas to be capped if known, 
proposed greenspace, new construction, and other site features or improvements. 
 
Exhibit B - Project Area and Site Boundaries 
Exhibit C – Landscape Plan: includes proposed greenspace, new construction, and other site 
features 
Exhibit D – Site & Dimensions Plan – Garage Level: includes at grade site improvements 
 
3. For loans only: A resolution adopted by the applicant’s governing body that verifies the applicant 
is willing to accept a loan, indicates an amount up to which the applicant is willing to borrow, 
and commits the governing body to repayment of the loan. The resolution should state the 
method of financial assurance being used to secure the loan (revenue sharing, escrow, letter of 
credit, or other method approved by EGLE). If the applicant is a BRA or other sub-unit of local 
73
 
 
 
EQP3581 
 
 
7/26/2019 
 
14
government, the resolution must be from the county or city under which the BRA or sub-unit was 
formed. 
 
4. High quality, publishable digital photos of the site.  Please provide these electronically in jpg 
format. 
 
SEE LINK TO EXISTING PHOTOS: ARS TO ESTABLISH LINK 6-2-2020 INSERT XXXXXXXXXXXXX 
 
5. If applicable, a final or draft development agreement, reimbursement agreement, or other 
agreement between the applicant and developer, describing reimbursement of TIF to the 
developer (if applicable), developer guarantees, development schedule, loan security (if 
applicable), and other terms and conditions associated with the project. If the project does not 
have a committed developer, no attachment is required. 
 
Exhibit E – GTCBRA Brownfield Reimbursement Agreement Template 
 
6. If the property is not owned by the applicant, a final or draft written agreement between the 
property owner and the applicant that commits the property owner to cooperate with the 
applicant, including a commitment to allow access to the property to complete, at a minimum, 
the proposed eligible activities. An example is attached. 
 
Exhibit F - BRU Grant Loan Application - Consent for Access to Property 
 
 
74
 
 
 
EQP3581 
 
 
7/26/2019 
 
15
 
Certification 
 
 
The undersigned, as the representative of the applicant, certifies that the applicant will comply with all 
applicable state and federal statutes and regulations, including those associated with the Natural 
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA 451, as amended, its administrative rules, and 
those statutes related to civil rights, equal opportunity, labor standards, environmental protection, and 
historic preservation. 
 
The undersigned, as the representative of the applicant, certifies that the property(ies) at which grant or 
loan funds will be used are within the jurisdiction of the applicant. 
 
The undersigned, as the representative of the applicant, certifies that within the last 24 months, the 
applicant has not had a grant from the Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (EGLE) 
revoked or terminated, and has not been determined by EGLE to be unable to manage a grant. 
 
The undersigned, as the representative of the applicant, certifies that a source of funding for ongoing 
maintenance and operation of the proposed project, if required, has been identified. 
 
The undersigned, as the representative of the applicant, verifies that the applicant passed its most recent 
audit and acknowledges that EGLE may review the auditor’s conclusions posted on the Michigan 
Department of Treasury web site. 
 
The undersigned, as the representative of the applicant, certifies that the information provided in this 
application and its attachments is true and complete to the best knowledge and belief of the applicant 
and the undersigned. 
 
 
_________________________________ 
____________________________________ 
Typed name of Applicant’s Representative 
 
Signature 
 
__________________________________    ___________________________ 
Title 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please submit the application electronically to 
 
egle-brownfields@michigan.gov 
 
Please call 517-284-5113 with questions. 
#mibrownfields 
www.michigan.gov/eglebrownfields 
75
LETTERHEAD 
 
CONSENT FOR ACCESS TO PROPERTY 
 
This is an example consent agreement. Grant/loan applicants are welcome, but not required, to use 
this form to secure property access for grant and loan projects. Text can be changed as needed for 
your project.  
 
PROJECT NAME:       
PROPERTY ADDRESS:       
TRACKING CODE:       
LOCATION CODE:       
NAME OF PROPERTY OWNER:       
 
I hereby grant the right to enter the property named above to employees, officers, guests, and 
authorized representatives of the Grantee / Borrower Name and Michigan Department of 
Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (EGLE) and its contractors, subcontractors and consultants. 
Access by, through, on, and use of the property is granted only for the duration of the Brownfield 
Redevelopment Grant/Loan contract and amendments, if any, to: 
 
1. Perform response activities, demolition, and other work described in Appendix A of the 
Brownfield Redevelopment Grant/Loan contract. I understand that the scope of work 
described in Appendix A may include digging, excavating, vehicle access, sampling, 
demolition, and other activities that would materially change the condition of my property 
and confirm the presence or extent of environmental contamination there.  
2. Undertake other actions necessary to administer and perform the scope of work under the 
Brownfield Redevelopment Grant and/or Loan. 
3. Photograph and create images of or on the property with an aerial drone and/or video. 
Images may be used by EGLE or the Grantee / Borrower to describe the project, promote its 
brownfield program, post on social media or a website,  
 
I am the property owner or an individual with authority or the property owner’s authorization to sign 
this access agreement. I give this written permission voluntarily with the full knowledge of my right to 
refuse and without threats or promises of any kind. 
 
Please indicate that you are granting access by signing this document. 
 
Name (Printed)        
 
 
 
Name (Signature)        
Date       
Address       
City       
 
 
State       
 
Zip       
Telephone Number(s): Work       
 
 
Alternate       
Email       
76
EGLE Environmental Eligible Activities Costs and Schedule Table
124 and 290 W. Front Street, Traverse City MI
DRAFT as of 5/29/2020
EGLE - Eligible Activities Costs and Schedule 
(Developer/BRA) - State/Local Capture Portion
No. of Units Type of Unit  Unit Cost 
 Total Cost 
Completion 
Season/Year
 Grant 
Request 
 Loan & TIF 
Request 
 TIF Only 
 I. ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVITIES: DEPARTMENT-SPECIFIC (EGLE) ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES
 Part 213 
Scope 
 Part 201 
Scope 
Department-Specific Eligible Activities
Exempt Activities - Assessments
Phase I Environmental Site Assessment
1
LS
$4,000  $                4,000 
Summer 2020
$0
$4,000
$0
Phase II Environmental Site Assessment
1
LS
$10,000  $              10,000 
Summer 2020
$0
$10,000
$0
Baseline Environmental Assessment
1
LS
$7,000  $                7,000 
Summer 2020
$0
$7,000
$0
Eligible Activity Compliance for Assessment Activities
1
LS
$1,000  $                1,000 
 Winter 2021 
$0
$0
$1,000
Project Management for Assessment Activities
1
LS
$1,000  $                1,000 
Summer 2020
$0
$1,000
$0
Exempt Activities - Assessments Subtotal
 $            23,000 
$0
$22,000
$1,000
Exempt Activities - Due Care Planning
Health and Safety Plan for Due Care Activities
1
LS
$2,500  $                2,500 
Summer 2020
$1,250
$1,250
$0
Due Care Planning and Investigations
1
LS
$25,000  $              25,000 
Summer 2020
$0
$25,000
$0
Planning for Compliance with Section 20107a 
Pre-Development Plan (Environmental Construction Management Plan)
1
LS
$10,000  $              10,000 
Summer 2020
$5,000
$5,000
$0
Post-Construction Plan
1
LS
$5,000  $                5,000 
Fall 2020
$2,500
$2,500
$0
Bid Coordination for Due Care Activities (Transport / Disposal of Contaminated Soils)
1
LS
$8,000  $                8,000 
Fall 2020
$2,400
$5,600
$0
Eligible Activity Compliance for Due Care Planning
1
LS
$3,000  $                3,000 
 Winter 2021 
$0
$0
$3,000
Project Management for Due Care Planning
1
LS
$5,000  $                5,000 
 Fall 2020 
$2,500
$2,500
$0
Exempt Activities - Due Care Planning Subtotal 
 $            58,500 
$13,650
$41,850
$3,000
Due Care Activities
Health and Safety Plan for Due Care Activities
1
LS
$3,000  $                3,000 
 Fall 2020 
$900
$2,100
$0
Part 213 Closure Reporting
1
LS
$5,000  $                5,000 
 Fall 2020 
$5,000
$0
$0
Soil Management Plan - Engineering & Design
1
LS
$10,000  $              10,000 
 Fall 2020 
$3,000
$7,000
$0
Soil Management (Transportation & Disposal) for Due Care Activities
Excavation (INCLUDED in Site Preparation)
0
NA
$0  $                       -   
 Fall 2020 
$0
$0
$0
Transportation
7850
CY
$19.00  $            149,150 
 Fall 2020 
$44,745
$104,405
$0
Disposal (Class II Landfill)
10990
TN
$31.00  $            340,690 
 Fall 2020 
$102,207
$238,483
$0
Sampling & Analysis
7850
CY
$1  $                7,850 
 Fall 2020 
$2,355
$5,495
$0
Oversight of Soil Management for Compliance with Section 20107a
10
DY
$1,500  $              15,000 
 Fall 2020 
$4,500
$10,500
$0
Water Management Plan - Engineering & Design
1
LS
$12,000  $              12,000 
 Winter 2020 
$6,000
$6,000
$0
Dewatering (Treatment and Disposal) for Due Care Activities
Dewatering Extraction System (INCLUDED in Site Preparation OR Infrastructure Improvements)
0
NA
$0.00  $                       -   
 Fall 2020 
$0
$0
$0
Treatment (System) and Disposal (150k Gal/Day x 100 Days)
15000000
GAL
$0.02  $            300,000 
 Winter 2020 
$150,000
$150,000
$0
Permitting, Fees & Coordination
1
LS
$15,000  $              15,000 
 Winter 2020 
$7,500
$7,500
$0
Sampling  
10
DY
$1,500  $              15,000 
 Winter 2020 
$7,500
$7,500
$0
Analytical
1
LS
$8,500  $                8,500 
 Winter 2020 
$4,250
$4,250
$0
Reporting & Permit Close Outs
1
LS
$11,500  $              11,500 
 Winter 2020 
$5,750
$5,750
$0
Decontamination of Pumps, Hoses, & Equipment
1
LS
$10,000  $              10,000 
 Winter 2020 
$5,000
$5,000
$0
Dewatering Management for Compliance with Section 20107a
16
DY
$1,500  $              24,000 
 Winter 2020 
$12,000
$12,000
$0
Vapor Mitigation System (Design, Installation, Testing) for Due Care Activities
Vapor Mitigation Design
1
LS
$10,000  $              10,000 
 Spring 2021 
$5,000
$5,000
$0
Vapor Barrier 
35000
SF
$4.20  $            147,000 
 Spring 2021 
$73,500
$73,500
$0
Passive Vent Layer
1
LS
$15,000  $              15,000 
 Spring 2021 
$7,500
$7,500
$0
Vent Piping
1
LS
$40,000  $              40,000 
 Spring 2021 
$20,000
$20,000
$0
System Testing
4
DY
$3,000  $              12,000 
 Spring 2021 
$6,000
$6,000
$0
Environmental Oversight
12
DY
$1,500  $              18,000 
 Spring 2021 
$9,000
$9,000
$0
Construction Management - Planning, Evaluation & Supervision for Due Care Activities
1
LS
$13,550  $              13,550 
 Spring 2021 
$6,775
$6,775
$0
Eligible Activity Compliance for Due Care Activities
1
LS
$17,000  $              17,000 
 Winter 2021 
$0
$0
$17,000
Project Management for Due Care Activities
1
LS
$28,000  $              28,000 
 Spring 2021 
$14,000
$14,000
$0
Due Care Activities Subtotal
 $       1,227,240 
$502,482
$707,758
$17,000
Environmental Activities: Department-Specific (EGLE) Eligible Activities Subtotal
 $       1,308,740 
$516,132
$771,608
$21,000
Contingency Percentage
15%
%
Contingency Amount
 $            196,311 
$77,420
$115,741
$3,150
Environmental Activities: Department-Specific (EGLE) Eligible Activities Total
 $        1,505,051 
$593,552
$887,349
$24,150
Brownfield Plan Budget Line item Adjustment Preparation, Public Meetings & Agreements (EGLE 
portion)
1
LS
$17,500  $              17,500  Summer 2020 
$0
$0
$17,500
Act 381 Work Plan Amendment (EGLE)
1
LS
$17,000  $              17,000  Summer 2021 
$0
$0
$17,000
Local Application Fees
1
LS
$5,000  $                5,000  Summer 2020 
$0
$0
$5,000
State/Local Interest (5.00% Simple Interest)
5.00%
%
$0  $                       -   
$0
$0
$0
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVITIES: DEPARTMENT-SPECIFIC (EGLE) ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES GRAND TOTAL
 $       1,544,551 
$593,552
$887,349
$63,650
Advanced Redevelopment Solutions
DRAFT
Page 1 of 1            
77
Exhibit A - Chief Executive Officer / Highest-ranking
Appointed Official Letter
78
Exhibit B - Project Area and Site Boundaries
79
124 W. FRONT STREET
W. FRONT STREET
290 W. FRONT STREET
Boardman   River
FILE:
PROJ. 
NO.:
PROJECT:
TITLE:
DATE:
DRAWN 
BY:
APPROVED 
BY:
385060.0000.01.02 PhI ESA.dwg
CHECKED 
BY:
8.5x11 
 
-
-
-
 
USER: 
DStehle 
 
-
-
-
 
ATTACHED 
XREF'S: 
 
 
-
-
-
 
 
ATTACHED 
IMAGES: 
 
 
GLCM 
100_2018-
05-
15 
GEP;
DRAWING 
NAME: 
J:\_TRC\Great 
Lakes 
Capital 
Mgmt\385060\0000\01 
Phase 
1 
ESA\ 
385060.0000.01.02 
PhI 
ESA.dwg 
-
-
-
 
PLOT 
DATE: 
April 
16, 
2020 
-
 
12:30PM 
-
-
-
 
LAYOUT: 
FIG02 
Site 
and 
Surrounding 
Properties
Version: 
2017-
10-
21
WORKING COPY
GREAT LAKES CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
124 W. FRONT STREET
TRAVERSE CITY, MICHIGAN 49684
SITE AND SURROUNDING PROPERTIES
D.STEHLE
P.LANCASTER
-
APRIL 2020
385060.0000.01
FIGURE 2
660 
Cascade 
West 
Pkwy 
SE
Suite 
105
Grand 
Rapids, 
MI 
49546
Phone: 
616.975.5415
60'
APPROXIMATE SCALE IN FEET
0
LEGEND
AERIAL FROM GOOGLE EARTH, DATED 05-15-2018
APPROXIMATE
SITE
BOUNDARY
PARCEL
BOUNDARY
80
Exhibit C - Landscape Plan
81
RECORD 
EAGLE 
BUILDING
PARKING 
(TYP)
ADA
ADA
W. 
FRONT 
ST. 
(66')
12' 
+/-
11' 
+/-
PEDESTRIAN 
BRIDGE
EX. 
BRICK
BRICK
FFE 
~ 
585.26'
FFE 
~ 
594.84'
BIKE 
LANE
EX. 
CONC. 
C/G
ADA
ADA
21" 
INV. 
CONC 
= 
583.57
STORM 
MH#1
AQUA 
SHIELD
RIM 
= 
592.19
21" 
CONC 
INV 
S 
= 
583.99
STORM 
MH#2
RIM 
= 
592.26
21" 
CONC. 
INV. 
N 
= 
584.14
15" 
CONC. 
INV. 
SE 
= 
585.31
21" 
CONC. 
INV. 
S 
= 
584.24
CONC. 
SITTING 
WALL
STORM 
MH#331
DEBRIS 
SEPARATOR
RIM 
= 
592.21
18" 
CONC. 
INV. 
SE 
= 
584.46
12" 
CONC. 
INV 
S 
= 
584.71
CB#595
RIM 
= 
591.85
12" 
CONC. 
INV 
N 
= 
585.10
GATE 
VALVE
& 
WELL 
12" 
WM
BRICK
SANITARY
SEWER 
VAULT
CONC.
ELECT. 
MH
SANITARY 
MH#3
RIM 
= 
583.74
8" 
CONC. 
INV. 
N 
= 
580.09
8" 
CONC. 
INV. 
S 
= 
580.04
8" 
CLAY 
INV. 
W 
= 
581.34
SANITARY 
MH#1
RIM 
= 
583.64
24" 
CLAY 
 
INV. 
E 
= 
579.89
24" 
CLAY 
 
INV. 
W 
= 
579.94
GARDEN
BRICK
SHORELINE
ASPHALT
ASPHALT
EX. 
CONC
WOODED
WOODED
CONC. 
POST
IRR 
MH
PEDESTRIAN 
WALKWAY
2.5' 
FRONT 
SETBACK
DECK
TRUCK 
RAMP
EX. 
WOODED
CB#2
RIM 
= 
583.41
8" 
CLAY 
INV 
E 
= 
581.41
CB#3
RIM 
= 
583.50
8" 
PVC 
INV 
N 
= 
581.80
8" 
CLAY 
INV 
W 
= 
581.10
8" 
PVC 
 
INV. 
= 
580.21
EX. 
CONC.
RET 
WALLS
TRUCK
RAMP
FFE 
~ 
582.88'
FFE 
~ 
585.61'
ASPHALT
ASPHALT
EX. 
CONC.
51-
794-
002-
50
51-
706-
006-
00
290 
W. 
FRONT 
ST.
BOARDMAN 
RIVER
J 
& 
S 
HAMBURG
(1-
STORY)
51-
706-
007-
00
300 
W. 
FRONT 
ST.
51-
794-
002-
50
51-
706-
009-
00
302 
W. 
FRONT 
ST.
51-
706-
004-
00
124 
W. 
FRONT 
ST.
4 
FRONT 
CREDIT 
UNION
(4-
STORY)
28-
51-
794-
001-
02
305 
W. 
FRONT 
ST.
CB#593
RIM 
= 
592.86'
12" 
PVC 
INV. 
NE 
= 
590.43'
STORM 
MH#333
RIM 
= 
593.23'
12" 
CONC. 
INV. 
S 
= 
588.68'
18" 
CONC. 
INV. 
NW 
= 
585.53'
18" 
CONC. 
INV. 
SW 
= 
588.68'
ST. 
MH#333
STORM 
CB#594
RIM 
= 
593.00'
12" 
CONC. 
INV. 
NE 
= 
589.98'
12" 
CONC. 
INV. 
W 
= 
590.21'
CB#594
CB#593
SAN. 
C.O.
RIM 
= 
593.22'
SAN. 
C.O.
RIM 
= 
593.98'
~R.O.W. 
LINE
~R.O.W. 
LINE
~R.O.W. 
LINE
~R.O.W. 
LINE
~R.O.W. 
LINE
~R.O.W. 
LINE
~R.O.W. 
LINE
EX. 
CONC. 
SW
AQUA
MH#1
STORM
MH#2
EX. 
CONC. 
SW
CONC. 
SITTING 
WALL
STORM
MH#331
CB#595
CB#2
CB#3
BOARDMAN 
RIVER
W. 
FRONT 
ST. 
(66')
PINE 
ST. 
(66')
SMH#2
SMH#3
SMH#1
EX. 
CONC
CB
SMH#4
C.O.
C.O.
C.O.
C.O.
EMH#25D
EMH#26D
AQUASHIELD
ACCESS
MH#1A
IRRIGATION
CONTROL
VALVE 
 
&
MANHOLE
8"
8"
MON.
WELL
MON. 
WELL
MON.
WELL
MON.
WELL
MON.
WELL
MON. 
WELL
LANDSCAPE PLAN
PR. CONC. SW
M
a
n
s
f
i
e
l
d
L
a
n
d
U
s
e
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
GRAPHIC 
SCALE: 
1 
inch 
=
feet
20
10'
20'
40'
60'
TRAFFIC FLOW ARROWS ARE SHOWN
FOR REFERENCE ONLY, NOT PROPOSED
PAVEMENT MARKINGS, TYP.
BM#2
R
P.M.:
DR.:
CKD.:
CREATED:
JOB 
NO.:
SHT
OF
P.M.:
DR.:
CKD.:
CREATED:
JOB 
NO.:
SHT
OF
P:\Land 
Projects\2020\20033 
-
 
Great 
Lakes 
Capital 
-
 
124 
W. 
Front\dwg\Plan\20033_Landscape 
Plan.dwg 
(L1.0 
LANDSCAPE) 
-
 
 
Mar 
16, 
2020 
4:01pm 
-
 
Dusty
P.M.:
DR.:
CKD.:
CREATED:
JOB 
NO.:
SHT
OF
P.M.:
DR.:
CKD.:
CREATED:
JOB 
NO.:
SHT
OF
830 Cottageview Dr., Ste. 201
P.O. Box 4015
Traverse City, MI 49685
Phone: 231-946-9310
www.maaeps.com
info@maaeps.com
REV#
DATE
DES
DRN
CHK
DESC
REV#
DATE
DES
DRN
CHK
DESC
REV#
DATE
DES
DRN
CHK
DESC
REV#
DATE
DES
DRN
CHK
DESC
Great 
Lakes 
Capital
124 
W. 
Front 
St.
Section 
03, 
Town 
27 
North, 
Range 
11 
West
City 
of 
Traverse 
City, 
Grand 
Traverse 
County, 
Michigan
dlm
jeh
jeh
20.03.02
20033
PRELIMINARY
01 
 
 
 
 
20-
03-
16 
 
 
 
jeh 
 
 
 
 
 
jeh 
 
 
 
 
 
dlm 
 
 
Preliminary 
Site 
Plan 
Submittal 
to 
City
BM#1: ELEV = 593.96' (NGVD '88)
NW CORNER OF CONC. WALL
N 10122.1870    E 10034.4560
BM#2: ELEV = 596.02' (NGVD '88)
TOP OF HYDRANT
N 9974.0560    E 10200.8340
BM#1
L1.0
PR. CONC. SW
PR. CONC. SW
PR. CONC. SW
EXIT
EXIT
EXIT
EXIT
EXIT
EXIT
EXIT
EXIT
EXIT
EXIT
EXIT
PROPOSED BUILDING
RETAIL
RETAIL
RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL
AMENTIY
LEASING OFFICE
TERRACE
COURTYARD
GRASS
GRASS
GRASS
GRASS
RAMP DOWN
RAMP UP
PR. CONC. DWY
BALCONY
BALCONY
BALCONY
BALCONY
STAIRS
STAIRS
ELEV.
MECH.
TRASH
25' FROM RIVER'S EDGE RESERVED FOR
POTENTIAL FUTURE CITY PEDESTRIAN WAY
PLANTING NOTES:
1.
Clean 
up 
and 
remove 
from 
the 
planting 
areas 
weeds 
and 
grasses, 
including 
roots, 
and 
any 
minor 
accumulated 
debris
and 
rubbish 
before 
commencing 
work.
2.
Remove 
and 
dispose 
of 
all 
soil 
in 
planting 
areas 
that 
contains 
any 
deleterious 
substance 
such 
as 
oil, 
plaster, 
concrete,
gasoline, 
paint, 
solvents, 
etc., 
removing 
the 
soil 
to 
 
a 
minimum 
depth 
of 
six 
(6) 
inches 
or 
to 
the 
level 
of 
dryness 
in 
the
affected 
areas. 
 
The 
affected 
soil 
shall 
be 
replaced 
with 
native 
or 
imported 
soil 
as 
required.
3.
Finish 
grading 
all 
planting 
areas 
to 
a 
smooth 
and 
even 
condition, 
making 
certain 
that 
no 
water 
pockets 
or 
irregularities
remain. 
 
Remove 
and 
dispose 
of 
all 
foreign 
materials, 
clods 
and 
rocks 
over 
1 
inch 
in 
diameter 
within 
3 
inches 
of 
surface.
4.
All 
Plant 
Materials 
shall 
be 
healthy, 
well 
developed 
representatives 
of 
their 
species 
of 
varieties, 
free 
from 
disfigurement 
with
well-
developed 
branch 
and 
root 
systems, 
and 
shall 
be 
free 
from 
all 
plant 
diseases 
and 
insect 
infestation.
5.
All 
plant 
substitutions 
will 
be 
subject 
to 
the 
Owner's 
approval.
6.
Each 
plant 
shall 
be 
planted 
with 
it's 
proportionate 
amount 
of 
soil 
amendment 
and 
fertilizer. 
 
Hand 
smooth 
planting 
area
after 
planting 
to 
provide 
an 
even, 
smooth, 
final 
finish 
grade. 
 
To 
avoid 
drying 
out, 
plantings 
shall 
be 
immediately 
watered
after 
planting 
until 
the 
entire 
area 
is 
soaked 
to 
the 
full 
depth 
of 
each 
hole 
unless 
otherwise 
noted 
on 
the 
drawing.
7.
Mulch 
all 
planting 
beds 
with 
3 
inches 
of 
shredded 
bark 
mulch.
8.
Remove 
all 
tags, 
labels, 
nursery 
stakes 
and 
ties 
from 
all 
plant 
material 
only 
after 
the 
approval 
of 
the 
Owner.
9.
All 
plants 
shall 
be 
guaranteed 
for 
a 
period 
of 
one 
year. 
 
The 
guarantee 
period 
commences 
from 
the 
time 
of 
final
acceptance 
by 
the 
Owner. 
 
Replace 
as 
soon 
as 
weather 
permits, 
all 
dead 
plants 
not 
in 
vigorous 
condition 
as 
noted 
during
the 
maintenance 
period. 
 
Said 
plants 
shall 
be 
maintained 
for 
a 
period 
of 
90 
calendar 
days 
from 
the 
replacement 
date.
Plants 
used 
for 
replacements 
shall 
be 
same 
kind 
and 
size 
as 
originally 
planted. 
 
They 
shall 
be 
furnished, 
planted 
and
fertilized 
as 
specified 
and 
guaranteed.
IRRIGATION NOTE:
Landscaping 
to 
be 
irrigated. 
Installation 
to 
be 
performed 
by 
a 
reputable 
irrigation 
contractor.
LANDSCAPING PREPARED BY:
Dustin 
M. 
Christensen, 
LLA
Landscape 
Architect 
No. 
3901001527
STREET TREES AS RECOMMENDED BY CITY FORESTER (TYP.)
REDOSIER DOGWOOD (TYP.)
RIVER BIRCH (TYP.)
TREE CANOPY NOTES:
1. Canopy 
Required 
(10% 
Lot 
Area): 
4,086. 
 
Canopy 
Provided: 
None 
-
 
should 
northern 
25' 
of 
site 
not 
contain
pedestrian 
way, 
required 
coverage 
could 
be 
provided 
in 
this 
area.
2. Due 
to 
the 
existing 
underground 
utilities 
on 
the 
portion 
of 
the 
site 
not 
covered 
by 
the 
proposed 
building,
as 
well 
as 
this 
area's 
reservation 
for 
potential 
future 
pedestrian 
way 
use, 
this 
area 
has 
been 
left 
free 
of 
tree
plantings. 
Per 
the 
Zoning 
Ordinance, 
for 
each 
$300 
contributed 
to 
the 
City 
of 
Traverse 
City 
Tree 
Planting
Fund, 
a 
property 
owner 
can 
receive 
a 
canopy 
credit 
of 
500 
s.f. 
To 
meet 
the 
necessary 
canopy 
cover
requirement 
for 
this 
project, 
an 
estimated 
$2,700 
will 
be 
donated 
to 
the 
Tree 
Planting 
Fund.
82
Exhibit D - Site & Dimensions Plan – Garage Level
83
RECORD 
EAGLE 
BUILDING
PARKING 
(TYP)
ADA
ADA
W. 
FRONT 
ST. 
(66')
12' 
+/-
11' 
+/-
PEDESTRIAN 
BRIDGE
EX. 
BRICK
BRICK
FFE 
~ 
585.26'
FFE 
~ 
594.84'
BIKE 
LANE
EX. 
CONC. 
C/G
ADA
ADA
21" 
INV. 
CONC 
= 
583.57
STORM 
MH#1
AQUA 
SHIELD
RIM 
= 
592.19
21" 
CONC 
INV 
S 
= 
583.99
STORM 
MH#2
RIM 
= 
592.26
21" 
CONC. 
INV. 
N 
= 
584.14
15" 
CONC. 
INV. 
SE 
= 
585.31
21" 
CONC. 
INV. 
S 
= 
584.24
CONC. 
SITTING 
WALL
STORM 
MH#331
DEBRIS 
SEPARATOR
RIM 
= 
592.21
18" 
CONC. 
INV. 
SE 
= 
584.46
12" 
CONC. 
INV 
S 
= 
584.71
CB#595
RIM 
= 
591.85
12" 
CONC. 
INV 
N 
= 
585.10
GATE 
VALVE
& 
WELL 
12" 
WM
BRICK
SANITARY
SEWER 
VAULT
CONC.
ELECT. 
MH
SANITARY 
MH#3
RIM 
= 
583.74
8" 
CONC. 
INV. 
N 
= 
580.09
8" 
CONC. 
INV. 
S 
= 
580.04
8" 
CLAY 
INV. 
W 
= 
581.34
SANITARY 
MH#1
RIM 
= 
583.64
24" 
CLAY 
 
INV. 
E 
= 
579.89
24" 
CLAY 
 
INV. 
W 
= 
579.94
GARDEN
BRICK
SHORELINE
ASPHALT
ASPHALT
EX. 
CONC
WOODED
WOODED
CONC. 
POST
IRR 
MH
PEDESTRIAN 
WALKWAY
2.5' 
FRONT 
SETBACK
DECK
TRUCK 
RAMP
EX. 
WOODED
CB#2
RIM 
= 
583.41
8" 
CLAY 
INV 
E 
= 
581.41
CB#3
RIM 
= 
583.50
8" 
PVC 
INV 
N 
= 
581.80
8" 
CLAY 
INV 
W 
= 
581.10
8" 
PVC 
 
INV. 
= 
580.21
EX. 
CONC.
RET 
WALLS
TRUCK
RAMP
FFE 
~ 
582.88'
FFE 
~ 
585.61'
ASPHALT
ASPHALT
EX. 
CONC.
BOARDMAN 
RIVER
J 
& 
S 
HAMBURG
(1-
STORY)
4 
FRONT 
CREDIT 
UNION
(4-
STORY)
CB#593
RIM 
= 
592.86'
12" 
PVC 
INV. 
NE 
= 
590.43'
STORM 
MH#333
RIM 
= 
593.23'
12" 
CONC. 
INV. 
S 
= 
588.68'
18" 
CONC. 
INV. 
NW 
= 
585.53'
18" 
CONC. 
INV. 
SW 
= 
588.68'
ST. 
MH#333
STORM 
CB#594
RIM 
= 
593.00'
12" 
CONC. 
INV. 
NE 
= 
589.98'
12" 
CONC. 
INV. 
W 
= 
590.21'
CB#594
CB#593
SAN. 
C.O.
RIM 
= 
593.22'
SAN. 
C.O.
RIM 
= 
593.98'
~R.O.W. 
LINE
~R.O.W. 
LINE
~R.O.W. 
LINE
~R.O.W. 
LINE
~R.O.W. 
LINE
~R.O.W. 
LINE
~R.O.W. 
LINE
EX. 
CONC. 
SW
AQUA
MH#1
STORM
MH#2
EX. 
CONC. 
SW
CONC. 
SITTING 
WALL
STORM
MH#331
CB#595
CB#2
CB#3
BOARDMAN 
RIVER
W. 
FRONT 
ST. 
(66')
PINE 
ST. 
(66')
SMH#2
SMH#3
SMH#1
EX. 
CONC
CB
SMH#4
C.O.
C.O.
C.O.
C.O.
EMH#25D
EMH#26D
AQUASHIELD
ACCESS
MH#1A
IRRIGATION
CONTROL
VALVE 
 
&
MANHOLE
8"
8"
MON.
WELL
MON. 
WELL
MON.
WELL
MON.
WELL
MON.
WELL
MON. 
WELL
SITE & DIMENSION PLAN - GARAGE LEVEL
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION NOTES:
1.
SEE 
ARCHITECTURAL 
PLANS 
FOR 
BUILDING 
FOOTPRINT,
DETAILS 
& 
DIMENSIONS, 
ETC.
2.
SEE 
ELECTRICAL 
PLANS 
FOR 
SITE 
LIGHTING 
AND 
POWER.
3.
SEE 
STRUCTURAL 
PLANS 
FOR 
CONCRETE 
ENTRANCE
SLABS, 
RAMPS 
AND 
CONCRETE 
UTILITY 
PADS.
4.
THE 
CONTRACTOR 
SHALL 
COORDINATE 
WITH 
ALL 
UTILITY
COMPANIES 
PRIOR 
TO 
COMPLETING 
ANY 
ON-
SITE 
WORK.
5.
ALL 
ACCESSIBLE 
SIDEWALKS, 
RAMPS, 
LANDINGS, 
ETC.
SHALL 
BE 
A.D.A 
COMPLIANT. 
WHERE 
A 
SIDEWALK
EXCEEDS 
1:20 
MAXIMUM 
SLOPE, 
CONSTRUCT 
SIDEWALK
RAMPS 
AND 
RAILINGS 
PER 
A.D.A. 
GUIDELINES.
6.
THE 
PROPOSED 
 
BUILDING 
SHALL 
MEET 
LOCAL 
CODES
FOR 
ADDRESS 
IDENTIFICATION 
AND 
DISPLAY.
7.
FIRE 
LANES 
SHALL 
BE 
POSTED 
WITH 
SIGNS 
ACCORDING
TO 
LOCAL 
CODES 
AND 
FIRE 
DEPARTMENT 
APPROVAL.
M
a
n
s
f
i
e
l
d
L
a
n
d
U
s
e
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
GRAPHIC 
SCALE: 
1 
inch 
=
feet
20
10'
20'
40'
60'
TRAFFIC FLOW ARROWS ARE SHOWN
FOR REFERENCE ONLY, NOT PROPOSED
PAVEMENT MARKINGS, TYP.
BM#2
P.M.:
DR.:
CKD.:
CREATED:
JOB 
NO.:
SHT
OF
P.M.:
DR.:
CKD.:
CREATED:
JOB 
NO.:
SHT
OF
P:\Land 
Projects\2020\20033 
-
 
Great 
Lakes 
Capital 
-
 
124 
W. 
Front\dwg\Plan\20033_Design.dwg 
(C4.1 
SITE-
GARAGE) 
-
 
 
Mar 
16, 
2020 
4:00pm 
-
 
jim
P.M.:
DR.:
CKD.:
CREATED:
JOB 
NO.:
SHT
OF
P.M.:
DR.:
CKD.:
CREATED:
JOB 
NO.:
SHT
OF
830 Cottageview Dr., Ste. 201
P.O. Box 4015
Traverse City, MI 49685
Phone: 231-946-9310
www.maaeps.com
info@maaeps.com
REV#
DATE
DES
DRN
CHK
DESC
REV#
DATE
DES
DRN
CHK
DESC
REV#
DATE
DES
DRN
CHK
DESC
REV#
DATE
DES
DRN
CHK
DESC
Great 
Lakes 
Capital
124 
W. 
Front 
St.
Section 
03, 
Town 
27 
North, 
Range 
11 
West
City 
of 
Traverse 
City, 
Grand 
Traverse 
County, 
Michigan
dlm
jeh
jeh
20.03.02
20033
PRELIMINARY
01 
 
 
 
 
20-
03-
16 
 
 
 
jeh 
 
 
 
 
 
jeh 
 
 
 
 
 
dlm 
 
 
Preliminary 
Site 
Plan 
Submittal 
to 
City
BM#1: ELEV = 593.96' (NGVD '88)
NW CORNER OF CONC. WALL
N 10122.1870    E 10034.4560
BM#2: ELEV = 596.02' (NGVD '88)
TOP OF HYDRANT
N 9974.0560    E 10200.8340
BM#1
C4.1
PR. CONC. SW
ALL SITE SIDEWALKS & ENTRANCES
ARE BARRIER FREE & ACCESSIBLE
R
PR. CONC. SW
PR. CONC. SW
PR. CONC. SW
PROPOSED BUILDING
BASEMENT LEVEL
TERRACE
RAMP DOWN
RAMP UP
PR. CONC. DWY
STAIRS
STAIRS
ELEV.
EXIT
PLACE HANDICAP PARKING SIGNS MOUNTED PER A.D.A.
CODE REQUIREMENTS. PLACE 8" DIAGONAL BLUE FASTDRY
PAVEMENT MARKINGS PER CODE REQUIREMENTS FOR
HANDICAP HASH MARKINGS. PLACE BLUE HANDICAP
SYMBOLS AND PROVIDE BARRIER-FREE ACCESS TO ALL
BUILDING ENTRANCES AND SIDEWALKS WITH THE REQUIRED
RAMPS, RAILINGS, LANDINGS AND SLOPES. (TYP.)
75 CAR SPACES &
5 MOTORCYLE SPACES
PAVEMENT MARKINGS:
PLACE ONE 4" WIDE, SOLID WHITE FASTDRY
PAVEMENT MARKING FOR ALL PARKING AREAS
& 4" WIDE, SOLID YELLOW FASTDRY PAVEMENT
MARKINGS IN ALL " NO PARKING" AREAS (TYP.).
MECH.
BIKE STORAGE
STAIRS
MAINTENANCE
MECH.
UTILITIES
25' FROM RIVER'S EDGE RESERVED FOR
POTENTIAL FUTURE CITY PEDESTRIAN WAY.
84
Exhibit E - GTCBRA Brownfield Reimbursement
Agreement Template
85
Exhibit F - BRU Grant Loan Application - Consent for
Access to Property
86
30955 Northwestern Highway  •  Farmington Hills, Michigan 48334  •  (248) 737-1300 
Confidential and Proprietary 
                 Federated Properties 124, LLC  
           
  
CONSENT FOR ACCESS TO PROPERTY   
  
PROJECT NAME: True Blue Lofts     
PROPERTY ADDRESS: 124 and 290 Front Street, Traverse City, Michigan   
NAME OF PROPERTY OWNER: Federated Properties 124, LLC  
  
I hereby grant the right to enter the property named above to employees, officers, guests, and 
authorized representatives of GLC Northern Michigan, LLC (GLC) and Michigan Department of 
Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (EGLE) and its contractors, subcontractors and 
consultants. Access by, though, on, and use of the property is granted only for the duration of the 
Brownfield Redevelopment Grant/Loan contract and amendments, if any, to:  
  
1. I understand EGLE will need to perform response activities, demolition, and other work 
described in Appendix A of the Brownfield Redevelopment Grant/Loan contract after the 
property is sold to GLC.  I understand that the current scope of work may include 
surveying the property, vehicle access and sampling which will help determine the extent 
of the environmental contamination.  I also understand that once the property is sold to 
GLC then the scope of work described in Appendix A will be performed and may 
include, vehicle access, sampling, demolition, and other activities that would materially 
change the condition of my property and confirm the presence or extent of environmental 
contamination there.   
2. Undertake other actions necessary to administer and perform the scope of work under the 
Brownfield Redevelopment Grant and/or Loan after the property is sold to GLC Northern 
Michigan.  
3. Photograph and create images of or on the property with an aerial drone and/or video. 
Images may be used by EGLE or the GLC to describe the project, promote its brownfield 
program, post on social media or a website.  
  
I am the property owner or an individual with authority or the property owner’s authorization to 
sign this access agreement. I give this written permission voluntarily with the full knowledge of 
my right to refuse and without threats or promises of any kind.  
  
Please indicate that you are granting access by signing this document.  
Name (Printed) Louis P. Ferris Jr. President of Federated Properties 124, LLC.  
  
  
Name (Signature)   
Address 30955 Northwestern Hwy, Farmington Hills, MI 48334  
Dated: 5.27.20  
Telephone Number(s): Work 248-737-1300   
  
  
87
