 
City of the VILLAGE of CLARKSTON 
Historic District Commission 
Art Pappas Village Hall  375 Depot Road  Clarkston, MI 48346 
Draft Agenda for Special Meeting via Videoconference 
Tuesday, June 9, 2020 at 7:00 pm (EDT) 
 
Due to the Coronavirus Outbreak and the Michigan “Stay Home, Stay Safe” order, this HDC meeting 
will be an online meeting only. The meeting is open to the public, to attend and participate in, via 
phone or computer. Public Comments will be heard; see item (2) below. 
The governor’s Executive Order 2020-15 changed the Open Meetings Act to allow public bodies to 
conduct meetings electronically, with public participation. 
 
Please join the meeting from your computer, tablet or smartphone. 
https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/696326757 
You can also dial in using your phone.  
United States (Toll Free): (866) 899-4679 
Access Code: 696-326-757 
 
Call to Order 
 
Roll Call: Melissa Luginski, Jim Meloche, Mike Moon, John Nantau, Jennifer Radcliff 
 
1) Approval of the Agenda 
 
2) Public Comments:  
Individuals can address the HDC on issues that are not on the agenda limiting their 
comments to five minutes. Comments on agenda items are allowed when that issue is 
being discussed. 
 
3) Approval of the May 12, 2020 meeting minutes 
 
4) Historic District Study Committee Updates 
 
5) Existing Applications for Review and Discussion: 
a) 9 South Main (Rudy’s Market) – review design/construction drawings 
b) 58 North Main – review updated construction drawings 
c) 9 Miller – status report 
d) 10 Miller – status report 
e) 177 North Main – status report 
 
6) New Applications for Review and Approval: 
55 South Main Street (Clarkston Village Dental) – review construction drawings 
 
7) Final Comments 
Potential Demolition by Neglect in the Historic District 
 
8) Adjourn 
 
The next scheduled meeting will be on Tuesday, July 14, 2020 at 7 pm. 
Meeting participants are asked to adhere to the following guidelines for this online meeting: 
1. This meeting will comply with all aspects of the Michigan Open Meetings Act and the 
recent OMA modifications resulting from the Stay Home, Stay Safe order.  
2. Under the modification, persons may participate electronically and be considered 
present in the meeting. 
3. All persons will be given the opportunity to speak during Public Comments similar to 
in-person meetings. Individuals are not required to identify themselves. 
4. To facilitate a productive meeting, participants are asked to mute their microphone 
except when called upon.  
5. If necessary, the meeting moderator may mute your microphone; if interruptions 
continue, the moderator may dismiss persons from the meeting. 
6. The meeting moderator will project on the screen those documents relevant to the 
discussion. 
7. All votes during this meeting will be performed by a Roll Call vote. 
8. Commission members are discouraged from communicating separately with other 
Commission members during the meeting via text, chat, IM, etc. 
9. This meeting is being recorded. 
 
For those using the online GoToMeeting Application: 
1. Click on the “Camera” icon to turn your computer’s camera on or off.  
2. Different view options are available by clicking on “View Who’s Talking” at the top. 
3. By clicking on “+” or “-” you can zoom-in/out on the document being presented. 
4. The Chat feature may be used, but please refrain from sending to “Everyone”. 
5. To exit the meeting, click on the “Leave” icon or simply close the window. 
 
Thank you. 
