Agenda
Gallatin Architectural Advisory Committee
to the
Municipal-Regional Planning Commission
Thursday, June llr2020
Virtual Meeting to be held remotely:
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81231 264088 or 470 250 9358
Webinar lD: 874-58 12-5055
5:00 p.m.
a
o
a
Pursuant to the Governoros Executive Orders #16 and #34 regarding public meetings and social distancing
and the need to limit the community spread of Covid-l9, members of the Planning Commission may
participate by electronic means and the meeting will be live streamed to protect the public health, safety
and welfare of the members and citizens of Gallatin.
To access this meeting online: www.gallatintn.gov, Boards & Commissions; Architectural Advisory
Committee to the Municipal-Regional Planning Commission; Agenda
Call to Order
Roll Call and Introduction of Members and Staff
Approval of Minutes form the Nf.ay 27,2020 Meeting
AGENDA
1. Røcap FRoM rne Mly 2712020 MnnrrNc
2. Rpvlnw or GrlurtN ZoNTNG ORDTNANcn AncUTTECTURAL SrtNo,rRos (Anr. 130 Snc 13.03)
3. DlscussloN on AncSITECTURAL Sr¡NonRos oF orHER TnNNnssBn ComnnuNruos
4. CoumnNrs AND CoNcnnNs or Connnnrrren MnvlnnRs
5. Scnnruls Nsxr MEETTNG DATE
6. Ao.rounN
Page I of I
MINUTES OF THE
GALLATIN ARCHITECTURAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
TO THE
MUICIPAL-REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION
(In compliance with Governor Lee's Executive Order #16 and #34, this meeting was held remotely)
May 27,2020
Members 
SIAtr
Matt Hanis
Roger Matchett
Robert Montgomery
William McCord, Director of Planning
Chuck Stuart, Building Official
Josh King, Assistant Director of Planning
Leticia Alexander, Staff Attomey
Absent
Others Present
None
None
Mr. William McCord, Director of Planning,readthe following statement: Pursuant to the Govemor's
executive order and the need to limit the community spread of Covid-19, members of the Architectural
Advisory Committee will participate by electronic means and the meeting will be live streamed to protect
the public health, safety and welfare of the members and citizens of Gallatin.
Mr. McCord called to order the first meeting of the Architectural Advisory Committee at 5:01 p.m. A copy
of the agenda is attached as Exhibit A.
Mr. McCord called roll.
Election of Committee Chairman
Mr. Harris motioned to nominate himself as Committee Chairman. Mr. Matchett seconded the motion and
the motion passed by roll call vote 3 ayes; 0 nays.
Chair Harris motioned to hold the meeting remotely in accordance with the Governors Executive Order #16
and#34 as read by Mr. McCord. Mr. Matchett seconded the motion and the motion passed 3 ayes; 0 nays.
Ordinance Architectural Standards
13.08
Mr. McCord explained the reason and purpose of the committee as requested by the Gallatin Municipal
Regional Planning Commission. He reminded the Committee that they received a copy of Article 13.00,
Section 13.08 of the Zoning Ordinance. He briefly discussed the provisions that apply to compatibility. He
desmibed the way compatibility standards were interpreted by the City Planner. Three options for
amending the code were presented to the Planning Commission for determining how to apply the
compatibility standard, which lead to the request for an advisory committee. He asked the committee to
Gallatin Municipal Regional Planning Commission Work Session Meeting Minutes
,lllay 27,2020
review the section of the Zoning Ordinance before the next meeting. He discussed the zoning code
interpretation (Subsection B) and said there are terms used in this subsection that are not def,rned in the
zoning code and are hard to measure. Staff requests the Advisory Committee to revise the existing
standards or create new standards.
Item 2: Municipal Board of Zoning Appeals decision of January 30. 2020
Mr. McCord described compatibility issues including accessory structures and the recent case regarding a
building permit for an accessory structure in an older neighborhood where restrictive covenants expired.
He said compatibility became difficult to interpret after the Board of Zoning Appeals decision to deny the
building permit for an accessory structure.
Mr. Harris described the case on Longboat Drive to the Advisory Committee. He said he leans towards
simpler solutions and said one option is to address accessory structures for compatibility or interpret how to
apply them in Subsections A and B.
Item 3: Architectural Standards of other Tennessee Communities
Mr. Josh King, Assistant Director of Planning, provided a power point presentation describing the codes of
other communities in Middle Tennessee. He said the range of standards is very wide. A copy of the
presentation will be provided by Google link to the Committee. He asked the Committee to decide where
the City of Gallatin should fall according to the standards of other communities.
Item 4: Comments and Concems of Committee Members
Mr. Harris said the Committee must be careful not to become the Architectural Review Board for the City.
Mr. Matchett said compatibility is not easy to determination regarding styles of home designs and said
there may be two (2) styles that represent the history of architecture.
Mr. Harris said the issue is applying the standards to neighborhoods that do not have restrictive covenants
particularly older neighborhoods.
Mr. Harris asked how many times this has been an issue.
Mr. McCord said there has not been a similar issue in the past.
Mr. Chuck Stuart, Building Offrcial, referring to accessory structures or additions to existing homes, said
the Building Department uses the 2018 International Building Code adopted by Ordinance of the City. His
concern is the liability to the City. Rules must apply to all parts of the City. The Building Department does
not take design review into consideration. He said a building permit was issued for an accessory structure
on Longboat Drive; however, there was an appeal filed, which brought it to the Municipal Board of Zoning
Appeals. He said conducting Architectural Review will slow down the process of building permit review.
Mr. Hanis reiterated the concern of establishing an Architectural Review Board for the City.
2
Gallatin Municipal Regional Planning Commission Work Session Meeting Minutes
May 27,2020
Mr. McCord said there are Cities that have Architectural Rçview Boards. He is concerned that this process
may slow down reviewing permit applications.
Mr. Matchett asked if there is a timeline for establishing compatibility standards.
Mr. McCord said there is no deadline.
Mr. King said the intent is not to make this Committee a permanent review board. He said Staff will work
with the Committee to establish a program to present to the Planning Commission and City Council.
5: Schedule Next
Mr. Harris suggested that the Committee members read through all of the information and re-convene in
June.
A meeting date was set for June 11 at 5 P.M.
Ms. Alexander said the meeting must be advertised for the June 11,2020 meeting at 5 P.M.
Item 6: Other Business
There was no other business to discuss.
Item 7: Adiourn
There being no further business to discuss, Chair Harris adjoumed the meeting.
Respectfully submitted:
Marianne Mudrak
Approve:
Matt Harris, Chair
3
