 
 Last printed 6/5/2020 5:43:00 PM 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF CASTROVILLE CITY COUNCIL 
SPECIAL CALLED MEETING 
1209 FIORELLA 
Tuesday 
June 09, 2020 
5:00 p.m. 
 
The City Council of the City of Castroville will meet at the special called meeting at 5:00 p.m. in the Council 
Chambers at City Hall on the following items listed on the agenda. 
 
I. 
Call to Order 
 
II. 
Roll Call 
  
III. 
Pledge of Allegiance   
 
IV.     Invocation  
 
V. 
Citizen Comments  
The City Council will hear comments from any citizen or visitor. Speakers must address their comments to the presiding 
officer rather than individual council members or staff; stand at the podium, speak clearly into the microphone and state  
your name and residential address before speaking. Speakers will be allowed a maximum of 3 minutes for testimony.  
Speakers making personal, impertinent, profane or slanderous remarks will be given one warning before losing the privilege  
to speak or may be removed from the room. Unauthorized remarks from the audience, stamping of feet, whistles, yells  
 
 
and similar demonstrations/distractions will not be permitted. No placards, banners, or signs will be permitted in the Chambers  
or in any other room in which the council is meeting.  In accordance with the State Open Meetings Act, the City Council is 
restricted from discussing or taking action on items not listed on the agenda. Action can only be taken at a future meeting.  
 
VI. 
Consent Agenda 
A. Minutes for May 12, 2020 Special Called Council Meeting. 
 
VII.  Nominate and appointment of a Mayor Pro Tem. 
 
VIII. Discussion and appropriate action on an ordinance awarding a franchise contract within the City of 
Castroville to Waste Management of Texas, Inc. for the collection and disposal of solid waste. 
  
 (Chris Cox, Area Manager Waste Management) (Tabled from May 12, 2020) 
 
IX.  Discussion and appropriate action on a variance request for the proposed subdivision of Country Village 
Estates, Phase I to allow the minimum street frontage to be less than 80 ft., for lots on the presented plat 
that do not meet the requirement as required by Castroville Code of Ordinances Chapter 100 
Subdivisions, Section 100 -54 , Lots.  (Breana Soto, Community Development Coordinator) 
 
 
X. 
Presentation on roles of the Castroville Area Economic Development Council and GoMedina with the 
City of Castroville.  (Arnie Dollase, Chairman of CAEDC and Phyllis Santleben, Mayor) 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Last printed 6/5/2020 5:43:00 PM 
Council Meeting 
Agenda, June 9, 2020 
Page 2 
 
XI. 
Discussion and appropriate action on re-opening of city facilities and parks to the public.   
(Leroy Vidales, Interim City Administrator) 
 
XII. 
Presentation on draft ordinance on Council Policies and Procedures. (Debra Howe, City Secretary) 
 
XIII. Appointment of Board Liaisons.  (Phyllis Santleben, Mayor) 
 
XIV. Updates from City Staff on: (Verbal Report) 
a. Tree Trimming 
b. Departmental procedures for afterhours service/emergency calls. 
 
XV. 
Discussion on future agenda items.   
XVI. Adjourn. 
 
 
 
ACCESSIBILITY STATEMENT 
 
The City Hall is wheelchair accessible.  The exit and parking ramps are located at the rear of the building. 
 
NON-DISCRIMINATION STATEMENT 
 
The City of Castroville does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, religion,  
or disability in the employment or the provision of services. 
 
The City Council of the City of Castroville reserves the right to adjourn into closed session at any time 
during the course of this meeting to discuss any of the matters listed above, as authorized by the Texas Open 
Meetings Act. 
 
I hereby certify that the above notice of meeting was posted on the bulletin board of City Hall, Castroville, Texas 
on June 5, 2020 before 6:00 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
Debra Howe  
City Secretary 
