NOTICE OF MEETING OF THE MCLENNAN COUNTY COMMISSIONERS COURT 
 
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the McLennan County Commissioners Court will conduct a special meeting 
on Tuesday, June 16, 2020 at 9:00 o’clock a.m. and act on the items on the following agenda. 
 
No physical meeting open to the public will be held.  A temporary suspension of portions of the open meetings 
act to allow telephone or video conference public meetings has been granted by Governor Greg Abbott pursuant 
to Executive Order No. GA-08.  These actions are being taken to mitigate the spread of Covid-19 by avoiding 
meetings that bring people into a group setting and in accordance with Section 418.016 of the Texas Government 
Code. IF the Governor’s Order is withdrawn or cancelled prior to the date of the meeting, the meeting will be 
held as a standard physical meeting open to the public. 
 
The opportunity to view and hear the meeting as well as the process if one wishes to address the Commissioners 
Court is available at: https://tx-mclennancounty.civicplus.com/1121/Commissioners-Court-Online-Meeting-
Infor 
 
 
 
AGENDA 
 
A. Proof of Posting of Notice  
 
B. Public Comments 
 
C. Contracts, Interlocal Agreements, and Memorandums of Understanding; Purchase, Lease, or 
Acquisition of Goods, Equipment or Services, including any Financing Thereof: 
 
 
1. Consideration and Approval of Tax Abatement Agreement between McLennan County, Texas and Timber 
US, Inc.    
 
Name of Property Owner: 
 
 
 
 
Timber US Inc. 
 
 
 
Name of Applicant for Tax Abatement Agreement:   
Timber US Inc. 
Name and Location of the Reinvestment Zone In Which the Property Subject to the Agreement is 
Located: Waco Reinvestment Zone Number Seventy (70), City of Waco, created by Ordinance No. 
2019-870 on November 5, 2019, being an approximately 16.89 acres of land located at Block 6, Lot 12, 
Texas Central Addition to the City of Waco, McLennan County, Texas, situated in the Carlos OCampo 
Survey, Abstract No. 32 and located within Census Tract 37.06, Block Group 1. 
 
General Description of the Nature of the Improvements or Repairs: Timber US Inc. will invest at least 
$6,865,000.00 in real property improvements for its heavy haul trailer manufacturing business, which 
will include offices, sales, and an approximately 58,000 sq. ft. warehouse with its tenant, Aspen Custom 
Trailers US Inc.    
 
2. Consideration and Approval of Tax Abatement Agreement between McLennan County, Texas and Aspen 
Custom Trailers US Inc.         
        
Name of Property Owner: 
 
 
 
 
Timber US Inc 
 
Name of Personal Property Owner:  
 
 
Aspen Custom Trailers US Inc. 
 
 
Name of Applicant for Tax Abatement Agreement:   
Aspen Custom Trailers US Inc. 
Name and Location of the Reinvestment Zone In Which the Property Subject to the Agreement is 
Located: Waco Reinvestment Zone Number Seventy (70), City of Waco, created by Ordinance No. 
2019-870 on November 5, 2019, being an approximately 16.89 acres of land located at Block 6, Lot 12, 
Texas Central Addition to the City of Waco, McLennan County, Texas, situated in the Carlos OCampo 
Survey, Abstract No. 32 and located within Census Tract 37.06, Block Group 1. 
 
General Description of the Nature of the Improvements or Repairs: Aspen Custom Trailers US Inc. will 
invest at least $1,400,000.00 in personal property improvements for its heavy haul trailer manufacturing 
business with its landlord, Timber US Inc.  
 
D. Adjourn 
 
 
Signed this the 15th day of May, 2020 
 
Scott M. Felton – Original Signed 
 SCOTT M. FELTON, County Judge 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATE OF TEXAS * 
COUNTY OF McLENNAN * 
 
I, J.A. “ANDY” HARWELL, County Clerk, and the Ex-Officio Clerk to the Commissioners Court, hereby 
certify that the above and foregoing is a true and correct copy of a NOTICE OF MEETING posted by me at the 
Courthouse door in Waco, McLennan County, Texas, where notices are customarily posted this the 15th day of 
May, 2020 at 8:10 a.m.   
 
Witness my hand and seal of office at Waco, McLennan County, Texas this 15th day of May, 2020 
 
                        J. A. "ANDY" HARWELL, County Clerk 
(SEAL)           McLennan County, Texas 
 
 
  
 
                        BY Myrce’tez Gowan-Perkins (Deputy)       
 
Notice: Persons with disabilities in need of auxiliary aide or services may contact the County Judge’s Office, (254) 757-
5049, prior to the meeting date 
 
