Mayor 
   L. Mitch Adams 
 
City Council 
  TJ Mitchell    
  Barbara Patterson 
   Mike Petersen 
   Karen Peterson 
   Anna Stanton 
       
 
 
CLINTON CITY COUNCIL AGENDA 
2267 N 1500 W Clinton, UT 84015 
 
Public meetings will be held electronically with Executive Order 2020-1 Suspending the Enforcement 
of the Provisions of Utah Code 52-4-202 and 52-4-207 due to Infectious Disease COVID-19 Novel 
Corona virus issued by Governor Herbert on March 18, 2020.  No physical meeting location will be 
available.  The public may monitor or listen to the open portions of the meeting electronically by 
following the instructions below.   
 
June 9, 2020 
 
                                    https://us02web.zoom.us/j/88968951373 
 
 
                                                                     OR 
By phone and dial 
                                                           +1 669 900 9128 US 
     +1 253 215 8782 US 
 
       Meeting ID: 889 6895 1373 
 
I. REGULAR SESSION – 7:00 P.M. 
1. Call to Order 
2. Roll Call 
 
II. PUBLIC INPUT  
1. Verbal Requests and Communications from the Audience. 
 
Any public member desiring to address the Council shall, prior to the meeting, send an email request 
to the Clerk of the Council at ltitensor@clintoncity.com or call 801-614-0720.  They will be allowed 
up to three minutes to make their presentation.  (The Council cannot take action on items not 
advertised on the agenda according to the Utah State Code.) 
 
III. BUSINESS 
 
A. Employee of the Month of May 2020 – Amy Durrans  
B. Resolution 08-20, Amendment to City’s Cafeteria Plan due to Cares Act  
C. URS Public Safety Employees Tier II Hybrid Retirement Enhancement Cost Pick-up 
D. Public Hearing – regarding various Zoning Text Amendments:  
(a) Adoption of Ordinance 20-01Z for a text amendment in Chapter 2 amending the 
definitions of “Setback”, “Sight Triangle” and “Visual Clearance Triangle”;  
(b) Discussion on possible amendment to Chapter 4 regarding driveway proximities to 
intersections; 
(c) Discussion on curb cut text amendments 
E. Request for a two year extension of Monarch Meadow Phase 3 plat approvals 
F. Final Acceptance of Public Improvements at Stonegate Phase 1 (located in the vicinity of 2300 N 
and 3430 W) 
 
IV. OTHER BUSINESS 
a. 
Approval of Minutes:  May 12, 2020 CC Meeting 
b. Approval of Accounts Payable 
c. 
Planning Commission Report 
d. City Manager’s Report 
e. 
Mayor’s Report 
f. 
Council Reports on Areas of Responsibility 
g. Action Item Review 
 
V. ADJOURN 
Dennis W. Cluff 
DENNIS W. CLUFFCITY RECORDER 
CLINTON CITY 
COUNCIL AGENDA ITEM 
SUBJECT:  Employee of the Month of May 2020 – Amy 
Durrans 
AGENDA ITEM:  A 
 
PETITIONER: Dennis Cluff, Shannon Mullins 
MEETING DATE:  
 
 
June 9, 2020 
RECOMMENDATION: That Council recognize Amy 
Durrans as Employee of the Month of May 2020 
ROLL CALL VOTE: 
            NO 
FISCAL IMPACT: 
BACKGROUND:  
     Amy became a part of our Justice Court team in October of 2015.  Since then she 
has been given many assignments and she has always finished them on time and done a 
great job. Amy is very eager and quick to learn which has been helpful with the never 
ending changes that occur in the Court especially these past few months with Covid-19. 
 
     Amy is always very willing to do whatever has been asked of her. She is very 
efficient and dependable. One of Amy’s great qualities is that she has exceptional 
customer service skills with the public and also her City co-workers. She is an exemplary 
employee and a valuable asset to the Clinton Justice Court.  We are pleased to recognize 
Amy as the City Employee for the month of May 2020. 
 
ATTACHMENTS: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CLINTON CITY 
 
COUNCIL AGENDA ITEM 
 
SUBJECT:   Resolution 08-20, Amendment to City’s Cafeteria Plan due 
to Cares Act 
AGENDA ITEM:  B 
 
PETITIONER:  Dennis Cluff 
MEETING DATE: 
 
June 9, 2020 
RECOMMENDATION:   That Council adopt Resolution #08-20, 
approving the attached Amendment to the Clinton City Cafeteria Plan for 
the Cares Act rules modifying the FSA usage and authorizing the City 
Manager to sign the Plan change. 
ROLL CALL VOTE: 
YES 
FISCAL IMPACT:        
BACKGROUND:   
One of the many aspects of the CARES Act (Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act) was 
the amending of the IRS Code to allow the payment of over-the-counter medications with pre-tax 
reimbursement programs like FSA (which is what Clinton has for participating employees).  Our 
existing Cafeteria Plan outlining allowed usage of the FSA needs to be modified to allow for its use on 
over-the-counter medications. 
      
ATTACHMENTS:  Amendment to City Cafeteria Plan; Resolution #08-20 
 
 
 
 
Amendment - CARES Act - OTC 
 
 
 
 
CLINTON CITY CORPORATION 
AMENDMENT FOR CARES ACT 
ELIGIBLE OVER THE COUNTER EXPENSES 
 
ARTICLE I 
PREAMBLE; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.1 
Adoption and effective date of Amendment. The Employer adopts this Amendment to implement provisions of the 
CARES Act which affect the Clinton City Corporation Cafeteria Plan (“Plan”).  The Employer intends this Amendment as 
good faith compliance with the requirement of these provisions.  This Amendment shall be effective on or after January 1, 
2020.  If the Employer restates the Plan then this Amendment shall remain in effect after such restatement unless the 
provisions in this Amendment are restated or otherwise become obsolete (e.g., if the Plan is restated onto a plan document 
which incorporates these provisions).     
 
1.2 
Superseding of inconsistent provisions. This Amendment supersedes the provisions of the Plan and the provisions of 
previous amendments to the extent those provisions are inconsistent with the provisions of this Amendment. 
 
1.3 
Construction. Except as otherwise provided in this Amendment, any "Section" reference in this Amendment refers only to 
this Amendment, and is not a reference to the Plan. The Article and Section numbering in this Amendment is solely for 
purposes of this Amendment, and does not relate to the Plan article, section, or other numbering designations.  
 
1.4 
Definitions.  Except as otherwise provided in this Amendment, terms defined in the Plan will have the same meaning in this 
Amendment.  The following definitions apply specifically to this Amendment: 
 
 
A.     The “CARES Act” is the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, also known as the CARES Act.  This  
 
         Amendment shall be interpreted and applied to comply with the Cares Act. 
 
ARTICLE II  
PLAN PROVISIONS 
 
2.1 
Application.  Effective January 1, 2020, the Plan’s definition of “Medical Expenses” in the Health Flexible Spending Account 
 
Plan and the definition of “Qualifying Medical Expenses” in the Health Reimbursement Arrangement under the Plan is 
 
amended by the addition of the following provisions: 
 
2.2 
Over the Counter Medication.  Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, a Participant may be reimbursed for 
 
the cost of any medicine or drug for medical care, within the meaning of the term “medical care” as defined in Code Section  
 
213(d) and the rulings and Treasury regulations thereunder, including those medicines or drugs that are not prescribed as  
 
also defined.  Insulin remains a covered expense.   
 
2.3 
Menstrual Products.  A Participant may be reimbursed for the purchase of menstrual care products as defined in Code 
Section 223(d)(2)(D) and as authorized in Code Section 106(f).   
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been executed on: ______________________________________. 
 
Employer Name:  Clinton City Corporation 
 
Plan Name:  Clinton City Corporation Cafeteria Plan 
 
 
By: _______________________________________              ____________________________________________ 
            Employer Signature 
Print Name / Title 
 
Amendment - CARES Act - OTC 
 
 
ADOPTING RESOLUTION 
 
The undersigned authorized representative of Clinton City Corporation (the Employer) hereby certifies that the following 
resolution was duly adopted by the Employer and that such resolution has not been modified or rescinded as of the date hereof: 
 
RESOLVED, that the Amendment to the Clinton City Corporation Cafeteria Plan for the CARES Act (the Amendment) is 
hereby approved and adopted,  and that an authorized representative of the Employer is hereby authorized and directed to execute 
and deliver to the Plan Administrator the Amendment and to take any and all actions as it may deem necessary to effectuate this 
resolution. 
 
The undersigned further certifies that attached hereto is a copy of the Amendment approved and adopted in the foregoing 
resolution. 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
 
 
                                                                                                   Signed 
 
 
                                       
Print Name / Title 
 
 
SMM CARES Act - OTC 
1 
 
SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION 
MATERIAL MODIFICATIONS 
 
I 
INTRODUCTION 
 
This is a Summary of Material Modifications regarding changes to your Flexible Benefits Plan ("Plan"). Unless stated 
otherwise, the modifications described in this summary are effective as of January 1, 2020. This is merely a summary of the 
most important changes to the Plan and information contained in the Summary Plan Description (“SPD”) previously provided 
to you. It supplements and amends the SPD so you should retain a copy of this document with your copy of the SPD.  If you 
have any questions, contact the Administrator. If there is any discrepancy between the terms of the Plan, as modified, and 
this Summary of Material Modifications, the provisions of the Plan will control. 
 
II 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
 
 
Section 3702 of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act or the (“CARES Act”) reverses the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act rule on Over-the Counter “OTC” drug expenses for FSAs, HRAs, and HSAs.   
 
Effective immediately and retroactively to January 1, 2020, you may be reimbursed for medical OTC drug expenses without 
a prescription. In addition, you may be reimbursed for the purchase of menstrual care products.  The term “menstrual care 
product” means a tampon, pad, liner, cup, sponge, or similar product used by individuals with respect to menstruation.  
 
 
 
 
 
RESOLUTION  NO. 08-20 
 
A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN AMENDMENT TO CLINTON CITY’S 
FSA CAFETERIA PLAN ALLOWING FOR USE ON OVER-THE-COUNTER 
MEDICATIONS AS PER THE CARES ACT PROVISIONS. 
 
 
 
Whereas, Clinton City allows employees to participate in the FSA (Flexible 
Spending Account) program through NBS (National Benefit Services); and, 
 
 
Whereas, the CARES ACT passed by Congress includes a provision modifying 
the IRS rules on the use of FSA’s which now sanctions the payment of over-the-
counter medications; and, 
 
 
Whereas, NBS requires the Clinton Cafeteria Plan be modified to include the 
new IRS rulings; and,  
 
 
 Whereas, Clinton City desires it’s employees participating in the FSA program 
to have the full legally allowed expenditure options; 
 
 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Clinton City Council hereby resolves that 
Amendment to the Clinton City Corporation Cafeteria Plan for the CARES Act 
amendment attached hereto, is hereby approved; and that the authorized representative 
of the City be directed to execute the agreement for and on behalf of Clinton City. 
 
 
Introduced and Passed this the 9th day of June 2020.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinton City 
Attest: 
 
 
 
 
 
 Municipal Corporation 
 
                                                                                                                                 
Dennis W. Cluff, City Recorder 
 
        Mayor L. Mitch Adams 
 
Posted:                                       
CLINTON CITY 
COUNCIL AGENDA ITEM 
SUBJECT: URS Public Safety Employees Tier II Hybrid Retirement 
Enhancement Cost Pick-up 
AGENDA ITEM:  C 
 
PETITIONER: Dennis Cluff 
MEETING DATE:  
       June 9, 2020 
           
RECOMMENDATION: That Council consider picking up the employee 
percentage of the new Public Safety Employees Tier II Hybrid Retirement 
Enhancement in the amount of 2.27% of eligible retirement salary                    
ROLL CALL VOTE: 
               YES 
FISCAL IMPACT: 
BACKGROUND: 
In 2011, the Legislature changed the retirement system affecting new employees to their system hired after July 2011.  
The new employees are enrolled in the URS Tier II Retirement System. Tier II employees have two different 
retirement pathways they can select, either the Hybrid (employer paid URS along with 1.33% to 401K) or the Defined 
Contribution plan (employer paid 401K which employee invests).  At this same time Tier II eligibility increased from 
30 years to 35 years for regular employees and from 20 years to 25 years for Public Safety (Police & Fire) employees.  
Lastly, the percentage multiplier used to calculate the retirement payment changed from 2% to 1.5% and is based on 
the highest 5-year average instead of the highest 3-year average. 
 
The recent State Senate Bill 56 has established a number of URS retirement enhancements for Tier II Public Safety 
employees:   
1) The employer payment increases from 12 to 14%; 
2) Employees enrolled in the Hybrid System must contribute any amount in excess of the required employer 
contribution which is 14% for FY 20-21...this added amount is 2.27% for FY 20-21; OR, 
3) The City, as the employer, may elect to “pick-up” all or part of the required employee contribution on behalf of the 
employee. 
4) The multiplier for the calculation of the retirement allowance has been changed back to 2% for time earned after 
July 1, 2020. 
 
The question that is being placed before you at your June 9th Council meeting is whether or not you want the City to 
pick-up the cost of any or all of the required employee contribution for the Hybrid Tier II Public Safety Employees.  
We have 6 firefighters and 6 police officers that are on the Tier II Hybrid program. Cost to pick-up all of the 2.27% 
would be $5,480 for firefighters and $7,040 for police officers, a total of $12,520 additional cost for FY 20-21. 
 
If the City wishes to pick-up part or all of the employee’s contribution, we need to send that information to URS.  If 
you don’t wish to do that, then per the Senate Bill the employee contribution portion will be automatically deducted 
from their wages starting July 1st and sent to URS.  If you don’t wish to pick-up all or part of the employee 
contribution starting July 1st, but decide to do so later that could be done and not be retroactive but start at that date.  
Either way it seems the URS wants more contribution for Public Safety employees whether from the employer or the 
employee.  As I currently understand it, any amount the City decides to pick-up on behalf of the employee will be a 
continuing cost and not referable back to the employee.  The IRS decision on this issue is still unknown. 
ATTACHMENTS:   
 
 
CLINTON CITY 
COUNCIL AGENDA ITEM 
 
SUBJECT: Public Hearing regarding various Zoning Text Amendments:  
(a) Adoption of Ordinance 20-01Z for a text amendment in Chapter 2 amending 
the definitions of “Setback”, “Sight Triangle” and “Visual Clearance Triangle”  
(b) Discussion on possible amendment to Chapter 4 regarding driveway 
proximities to intersections  
(c) Discussion on curb cut text amendments 
  
AGENDA ITEM:   
 
SUBMITTED BY: Valerie Claussen, Community Development  
 
MEETING DATE:  
June 9, 2020 
           
RECOMMENDATIONS:  
(a) Move to adopt Ordinance 20-01Z and approve the text amendment of 
Chapter 2 and the definitions of “Setback”, “Sight Triangle” and “Visual 
Clearance Triangle”.  
(b) Discuss proximities to intersection provision 
(c) Discuss possible curb cut amendments 
ROLL CALL VOTE: 
           Yes 
BACKGROUND: 
(a) Planning Commission held a public hearing and recommended approval of revisions to the definitions of 
“Setback”, “Sight Triangle” and “Visual Clearance Triangle” at their May 19, 2020 meeting.  The revisions for 
the setback will allow for the projection of architectural pop-outs/features, such as bay windows, chimneys 
cantilevers of not more than 2 feet into the front, rear and side setbacks in the agricultural and residential zones.  
The change, as proposed, will not permit this type of encroachment in the side yards of the PH (Patio Home) 
Zone.  Revisions to the Visual Triangles differentiate the requirements for commercial corners to remain at 40 
feet and for residential corners to be reduced to 20 feet, with the caveat that if the corner is at an intersection of 
arterial streets, for instance, the City Engineer may require a larger visibility triangle.  Measurements of the 
visual triangle distances are taken from property line in both instances.   REFER TO ORDINANCE FOR TEXT 
CHANGES. REFER TO SETBACK ANALYSIS & VISUAL TRIANGLE ANALYSIS ATTACHMENTS OF THE 
PC STAFF REPORT FOR ADDITIONAL DISCUSSION. 
(b) The City received a written request from a resident for consideration of a reduction in the location of driveways 
in proximities of intersections. The request was for that distance to be 20 feet, instead of 40 feet.  That distance 
would be consistent with the proposed revisions to the residential site triangle distance and consistent with 
street side yard setbacks of homes on local streets (street side yard setbacks are increased to 35 feet when 
located on a major street).  After discussion, however, the Commission did not recommend changes to the 
provision in Chapter 4.  REFER TO PROXIMITY TO INTERSECTION ANALYSIS ATTACHMENT OF THE 
PC STAFF REPORT FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.  
(c) Last year the City received a written request and subsequently a verbal request during public comment from a 
resident to consider changes to the curb cut provisions of the Zoning Ordinances.  At this time there are no 
specific amendments proposed, however, Staff may be narrowing the scope of the curb cut revisions to just 
removing Table 4.15.7, which lists various percentages of the frontage allowed for a driveway approach. 
Instead a set percentage for all zoning districts, likely 50 percent, would be permitted. This will simplify the 
administration of an otherwise unnecessary complex code provision and allow for the residents in all zones to 
have driveway widths to accommodate a reasonable use of their property.  REFER TO DRIVEWAY WIDTH 
CODE PROVISION SHEET.   
ATTACHMENTS:    
(1) Ordinance 20-01Z 
(2) Proximity to Intersection Request Letter 
(3) Driveway Width Code Provision 
(4) May 19, 2020 Planning Commission Staff Report and Attachments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO.  20-01Z 
 
ZONING TEXT CHANGE 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2 OF THE CLINTON 
CITY ZONING ORDINANCE REGARDING STANDARDS FOR 
SETBACK PROJECTIONS AND VISUAL CLEARANCE 
TRIANGLE.  
 
WHEREAS, 
 
Clinton City has established an ordinance regulating zoning within the 
City; and 
 
WHEREAS, 
 
The Clinton City Planning Commission and City Council has convened 
public hearings and has determined that changes are needed in this 
ordinance to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens; 
 
NOW 
THEREFORE, 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF CLINTON CITY, 
DAVIS COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH: 
 
BY MOTION 
 
The Clinton City Council voted to adopt this Ordinance. 
 
 
 
SECTION 1. Enactment 
 
Chapter 2 Definitions Setback, Sight Triangle and Visual Clearance Triangle shall be 
amended as described below: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2. Planning Commission Action  
 
Reviewed in a public hearing the 19th day of May 2020, by the Clinton City Planning 
Commission and recommended for approval through a motion passed by a majority of the 
members of the Commission based upon the following findings. 
 
For Favorable Action (Adoption): 
 
Proposed changes do not adversely affect the effectiveness of the Ordinance and are 
consistent with the intent of the General Plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3. Severability.  In the event that any provision of this Ordinance is declared 
invalid for any reason, the remaining provisions shall remain in effect. 
 
SECTION 4. Effective date.  This ordinance shall be recorded and become effective upon 
the date of posting indicated below.  
 
 
PASSED AND ORDERED RECORDED AND POSTED by the Council of Clinton City, 
Utah, this 9th day of June, 2020. 
 
 
 
May 4, 2020 
___________________________________________ 
NOTICE PUBLISHED 
L. MITCH ADAMS 
 
MAYOR 
ATTEST:  
 
 
 
______________________________________________ 
DENNIS W. CLUFF 
CITY RECORDER 
 
Posted:  ____________ 
 
 
Clinton City Zoning Ordinance 
 
Title 28 
Parking 
 
Chapter 4 
 
 
Page 4−8 
approaches shall be separated by a minimum of 50 
feet measured from the two inside edges of the drive 
approaches. However, lots with frontages on 1800 
North and/or 2000 West, must first gain approval 
from the Utah Department of Transportation 
(UDOT). 
(6) Double Frontage Lots:  Lots that are double 
fronted with one frontage on an arterial, minor 
arterial or collector street, or corner lots with frontage 
on an arterial, minor arterial or collector street, shall 
not be allowed to have a drive approach on the higher 
classification street.  Upon approval by the 
Community Development Director, corner lots with 
frontages on two local streets may have a total of two 
drive approaches; one on each frontage of the street 
with a maximum width indicated in (7) below.  Drive 
approaches shall comply with the criteria in 28-4-1 
(5) (a) – (c). above, and shall not create a traffic 
hazard. 
(7) Width of Drives:104  The width of residential 
property driveway approaches is regulated as 
follows: Width:  The percentage of frontage indicated 
in Table 4.15.7 above shall be inclusive of all drive 
approaches allowed any one frontage of a lot. The 
width of a drive approach shall be measured where 
the approach attaches to the sidewalk or at a distance 
four and one-half (4 ½) feet behind the curb. Any 
flare or radius shall not be counted in the approach 
width. 
 
(8) Width:  The percentage of frontage indicated in 
(7) above shall be inclusive of all drive approaches 
allowed any one frontage of a lot. The width of a 
drive approach shall be measured where the approach 
attaches to the sidewalk or at a distance four and one-
half (4 ½) feet behind the curb. Any flare or radius 
shall not be counted in the approach width. 
(9) All park strip areas providing access from a 
public way shall be Hard Surface. 
28-4-16 Access to All Other Uses.  Access to all 
uses not listed hereinabove, including parking lots 
and apartments, mobile home developments, business 
and industrial uses, shall be limited as follows: 
(1) Location of Driveway:  Where access is provided 
by one driveway or two or more connecting 
driveways shall be as follows: 
(a) Access shall be by not more than one driveway 
for the first one hundred feet of frontage and one 
additional driveway for each additional one hundred 
fifty feet of frontage. For lots with more than one 
hundred seventy-five feet and less than two hundred 
fifty feet of frontage, two driveways may be allowed 
by the Planning Commission. 
(b) No two of these driveways shall be closer to each 
other than fifty feet, and no driveway shall be closer 
to a side lot line than twenty feet except as granted by 
the Board of Zoning Adjustments upon 
recommendation from the Planning Commission. 
(c) Driveways are to be located in conformance with 
Chapter 4 of the AASHTO book "Geometric Designs 
of Highways and Streets", or as approved by the City 
Engineer. In no case shall a driveway be located 
closer than eighty feet from the point of intersection 
of two arterial streets, or fifty feet from the 
intersection of an arterial and other classification of 
street. For all non-arterial streets this distance shall be 
fifty feet. The distance shall be measured from the 
point of intersection of the two converging front lot 
lines or of two lines lying tangent to and in the same 
direction as the front lot lines. No driveway shall be 
located across any curved section of frontage lying 
between the point of intersection and the point of 
tangency. 
(d) Lots with frontages of one hundred fifty feet or 
less are encouraged to share access to streets with 
adjacent lots. Where this is feasible, the Planning 
Commission may require joint access. Where it is 
determined to be infeasible by the Planning 
Commission, they may refer the proposed driveway 
location(s) to the Board of Zoning Adjustments with 
a recommendation for exception. 
Table 4.15.7 149 
Zone 
Min 
Width 
Percent of Frontage Allowed 
in Approach 
A-1 
10’ 
40% 
A-E 
10’ 
40% 
R-1-6 
10’ 
33% 
R-1-8 
10’ 
33% 
R-1-8a 
10’ 
33% 
R-1-9 
10’ 
50% 
R-1-10 
10’ 
50% 
R1-15 
10’ 
50% 
R-M 
10’ 
33% 
R-M approaches are to be approved during the site 
plan review and established as unchangeable without 
site plan review. 104 
DRIVEWAY WIDTH CODE PROVISION
CLINTON CITY 
PLANNING COMMISSION 
AGENDA ITEM 
SUBJECT:   
Public Hearing: Review and possible action on zoning text amendments to provisions in 
Chapter 2 and Chapter 3 regarding setback encroachments and Chapter 4 regarding 
driveway proximities to intersections and curb cuts.  
AGENDA ITEM: 
2 
PETITIONER: 
Valerie Claussen, Community Development 
MEETING DATE: 
May 19, 2020  
RECOMMENDATION: 
Move to recommend approval to the City Council the proposed text amendments to 
Chapter 2 and Chapter 4 regarding permitted projections in setbacks, proximity to 
intersections and the vision triangle definitions. 
ROLL CALL VOTE: 
YES 
BACKGROUND: 
(1) Following up on a discussion item the Commission held at the April 7, 2020 meeting, regarding permitted
projections in setbacks, additional comparison of other city’s standards is provided and the proposed text
amendment is discussed in the attachment.
(2) At a request by a resident and also with Staff identifying some issues with the clear vision triangle being applied to
single-family residential development , revisions to the definitions are proposed with a reduction in distance from
40 feet to 20 feet in regards to fencing and in proximity to intersections (for driveway locations).
(3) Curb cuts were another item that had been hoped to have been ready for discussion and review, but those changes
are quite substantive and will have to be brought forward at a later date.
ATTACHMENTS: 
1)
Permitted Setback Projections Discussion and Proposed Text Amendments
2)
Vision Triangle & Proximity to Intersection Discussion and Proposed Text Amendments
REV 5/19/2020
Setback Projection Text Amendment Discussion and Analysis 
Attached are the code sections from several different communities.  The standards are summarized in 
the table below: 
 
Examples from very urban and very rural communities have been included for comparison; as well as 
similar and local communities.  The majority of communities with similar development patterns allows 
for a two foot encroachment in the front, side and rear yards for bay windows, chimneys, architectural 
features and roof overhangs. 
While many of the Codes have a separate “Projection in Setback” type sections, that is somewhat 
inconsistent with our Code’s format that (unfortunately) has many standards scattered throughout the 
definitions chapter.  The City has been enforcing no “pop-outs” or setback encroachments from this 
definition for years, so it is believed to be sufficient to modify in the same provision.  The proposed 
revision to Chapter 2 “Setback” definition is for two feet on front, side and rear setbacks, and exclusion 
for side yard setback encroachments in the PH (Patio Home) zone.  The proposed text amendment is 
attached for reference.  
 
 
CITY 
DESCRIPTION 
ENCROACHMENT 
PERCENTAGE OF LENGTH 
Gilbert, AZ 
Very Urban 
3 ft front, rear & side yards in single 
family for bay windows (and cantilever); 
1.5 ft for pop-outs & arch features; 5 ft 
for roof overhang side yard, not closer 
than 3 feet to prop line; 1.5 feet for roof 
overhang rear yard 
Bay window not more 
than 1/3 length of wall 
Douglas County, NV 
Very Rural 
Up to 50% of front, rear and street-side 
yard; 2.5 ft of side yard (min of 4.5 ft 
clearance provided);  
  
Fernley, NV 
Very Similar  
2 ft side yard & 4 ft rear yard 
  
Syracuse, UT 
Local Example 
2 ft front, side & rear yards; Cluster 
subdivisions w/ less than 7 feet side yards 
cannot encroach 
Not more than 16 feet in 
width 
Clearfield, UT 
Local Example 
2 ft side & rear 
  
Layton, UT 
Local Example 
2 ft front, side & rear yards; 4 ft for eaves 
& roof overhangs 
Not more than 20% of 
wall for cantilever 
Pleasant View, UT 
Local Example 
5 ft front, side & rear yards 
  
West Point, UT 
Local Example 
Ordinary projections of skylights 
ornamental features, chimneys & flues 
permitted; 
  
Clinton City Zoning Ordinance 
 
Title 28 
Definitions 
 
Chapter 2 
 
 
 
 
Page27 
care of up to eight (8) children, related and unrelated, 
between the ages of three (3) and six (6) years of age 
for up to three (3) hours at any one time, conducted 
no more than five (5) times per week and where 
meals are not served.  Children under the age of six 
(6), of the owner/resident, shall be included in the 
number of children allowed in the preschool. 
“Public Utility Substation” 95 means a structure, 
site, area, or similar facility associated with a utility 
such as telecommunications, power, sanitary sewer, 
water, or similar utility that is constructed on site and 
intended to supplement or increase the capability of 
the utility.  Substations are generally: built on site, 
within an enclosed area or constructed as part of an 
overall facility site; taller than 6-feet; large enough or 
intended for a person to enter; or any combination of 
these items.  Examples of a Public Utility Substation 
could be but are not limited to pumping stations, 
cellular phone towers, power substations, and 
telecommunication structures larger than otherwise 
defined in this ordinance. 
 “Retail” 71 means the sale of goods or articles 
individually or in small quantities directly to the 
consumer. 
“Right-of-Way” means any street, alley or similar 
parcel of land essentially unobstructed from the 
ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or 
otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for 
public use. 
“Setback” 95, 104, 190 means the measurement taken 
from the property line to the outer surface of the 
building wall at its furthermost extension toward the 
lot line.  Building wall shall be interpreted to  does 
not include any cantilevered exterior walls, bays, or 
bump-outs extending beyond the foundation of two 
feet or less.  Such setback encroachments are not 
permitted in the side yards of the PH Zone. 
(1) Unenclosed porches, located within the front yard 
setback, with or without a patio cover shall be 
excluded from such setback measurement if the porch 
conforms to each of the following three sub-sections. 
(a) Total length does not exceed 15% of the length of 
the dwelling (excluding attached garages). 
(b) Does not protrude into an excess of 15% of the 
required front yard setback distance. 
(c) Any roof covering must conform to a. and b. 
(2) Unenclosed, rear or side porches shall be 
excluded from setback measurement if the porch 
conforms to each of the following sub-stations. 
(a) Total width of the patio, deck, or porch does not 
extend into the required side-lot setback on one side 
of the dwelling.  The patio, deck, or porch shall not 
extend at any point extend above grade within any 
required side-lot setback.   
(b) Total impervious surface ratio, established 
elsewhere in this ordinance is not exceeded. 
(c) Rear setback of the porch is not less than one-half 
of the required setback. 
(d) Design shall be such that run-off does not flow 
onto adjoining property 
(e) Any roof covering shall not infringe upon 
minimum side lot setback requirements. 
(f) Unenclosed covered detached porches shall meet 
the requirements of an accessory building. For the 
purpose of this section unattached means not directly 
attached to the dwelling. 
(3) Enclosed, rear, or side porches shall conform to 
the setback requirements for the main dwelling when 
attached or for accessory buildings when unattached.  
“Sexually Oriented Business” 71 shall be defined as 
provided in Title 19, Chapter 2, of the Clinton 
Municipal code. 
“Shed” or “Yard Shed” 169, 219 means an enclosed 
space or covered area outside of an enclosed space 
less than 200 square feet, not including eves, for the 
storage of yard tools and supplies, motorized yard 
equipment, and household items, etc..  Includes 
greenhouses, play houses, forts, and other play 
structures.  Does not include landscape features such 
as pergolas, arbors, or other skeleton type structures. 
“Shed Temporary” 169 means an enclosed space 
used for temporary storage of household goods.  An 
example of a temporary shed is a commercial product 
called a “Pod”. 
“Sight Triangle” 126 means the triangular area at the 
intersection of two streets or a street(s) and drive 
designed for increased traffic flow into a commercial, 
light manufacturing, office or similar area formed by 
measuring a distance of 40 feet along both lot lines 
back from the point of intersection of said lines.  
Where no lot line exists or where the lot line is less 
than 9 ½ feet from the back of the curb measuring 
distance shall be 49 ½ feet from the back of curb or 
edge of asphalt.  At no time shall the sight triangle be 
less than 40 feet from the planned right-of-way line 
for a street. (Refer to Visual Clearance Triangle for 
residential standards.) 
“Sign” means a presentation of words, letters, 
figures, designs, pictures, or colors publicly displayed 
so as to give notice relative to a person, a business, an 
article or merchandise, a service, an assemblage, a 
Article 4.1 
Site Regulations 
 
Sections 
 
4.101 
Encroachments into Building Setback and Interior Building Separation Areas 
4.102 
Projections above Height Limits 
4.103 
Lighting Standards 
4.104 
Outdoor Business Property Storage 
4.105 
Screening of Mechanical and Electrical Equipment 
4.106 
Refuse and Recycling Enclosures 
4.107 
Swimming Pools 
4.108 
Underground Utilities 
4.109 
Fences 
 
 
4.101 Encroachments into Building Setback and Interior Building 
Separation Areas 
 
A. 
The building setback areas in all districts shall remain unobstructed except where 
permitted by this Section. 
 
B. 
For single family uses in single family residential districts, these regulations are in 
addition to those set forth in Article 2.1:  Single Family Residential Districts. 
 
C. 
For all uses in single family residential districts, balconies, stairs, chimneys, canopies, 
decks, covered patios, and awnings may encroach no more than 3 feet into any required 
building setback area. 
 
D. 
In multi-family and nonresidential districts, canopies and awnings may encroach no 
more than 3 feet into any required building setback or interior building separation area. 
 
E. 
For single family uses in single family residential districts, bay windows may encroach 
no more than 3 feet into any required building setback area.  A bay window 
encroachment shall not exceed 1/3 the length of the wall plane upon which it is located. 
 
F 
Belt courses, cornices, window sills, pop-outs, quoins, and similar decorative 
architectural features may encroach no more than 18 inches into any required building 
setback or interior building separation area. 
 
G. 
Roof overhangs may encroach no more than 5 feet into a required side building setback 
or interior building separation area, but shall not be closer than 3 feet from a side 
property line. 
 
H. 
In single family residential districts except SF-D and SF-A districts, roof overhangs may 
encroach no more than 18 inches into a required rear building setback area. 
Revised 2-15-18 
Chapter I, Article 4.1 Site Regulations 
Page 1 
Very Urban Community
GILBERT, AZ
Town of Gilbert Land Development Code 
 
I. 
For single family uses in single family residential districts, covered porches may project 
up to 6 feet into the required front building setback area.  In no case shall the front 
building setback be less than 10 feet. 
 
J. 
Separation fences, located on a side or rear property line, may encroach into any 
required side and rear building setback area. 
 
K. 
Freestanding signs may encroach into required building setback areas, pursuant to 
Article 4.4:  Sign Regulations. 
 
L. 
Accessory structures may encroach into required side and rear building setback areas, 
pursuant to Section 2.106B: Accessory Structures; Section 2.205A: Accessory 
Structures; Section 2.305A: Accessory Structures; and Section 2.505A: Accessory 
Structures. 
 
M. 
Outdoor lighting fixtures may encroach into required building setback areas, pursuant to 
Section 4.103:  Lighting Standards. 
 
 
4.102 Projections above Height Limits 
 
The following projections above base district height limits are permitted: 
 
A. 
Belfries, domes, chimneys, cupolas, skylights, clock towers and other similar structural 
elements not used for human occupancy, may project above the base district height 
limit, provided that they do not cover more than 20 percent of the roof area. 
 
B. 
Mechanical equipment and enclosures, elevator penthouses, ventilators, and other 
similar equipment, may project up to 5 feet above the base district height limit, but may 
not exceed the height of parapet walls. 
 
C. 
Parapet walls or cornices may project up to 5 feet above the base district height limit. 
 
D. 
Theater scenery lofts only to the height necessary to accomplish their purpose. 
 
E. 
Church steeples, religious symbols, or similar elements on Places of Worship. 
 
F. 
Signs, pursuant to Article 4.4:  Sign Regulations. 
 
G. 
Flagpoles, pursuant to Section 4.402G:  Flagpoles. 
 
H. 
Wireless communications facilities, pursuant to Article 4.7:  Wireless Communication 
Facilities. 
 
 
Revised 5-15-18 
Chapter I, Article 4.1 Site Regulations 
Page 2 
5/15/2020
23/29
F. Watershed
Improvements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Erosion Control
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
Runoff Control
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
Stream Environment Zone
Restoration
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
20.702.060 Lot size and density standards
    A.  The minimum size of any lot must comply with the following: 
        1.  Zoning districts with a prefix of R have a minimum lot size of 8,000 square feet. 
        2.  Zoning districts with a prefix of C have a minimum lot size of 10,000 square feet. 
        3.  Zoning districts with a prefix of T have a minimum lot size of 10,000 square feet. 
        4.  Zoning districts with a prefix of S have a minimum lot size of 20,000 square feet. 
        5.  Zoning districts with a prefix of P have no minimum lot size requirements. 
        6.  Zoning districts with a prefix of M have a minimum lot size of 40 gross acres.
    B.  The density of any building used for multi-family or multi-person residential purposes and for mobile home parks must not exceed the limits in chapter 31 of the
TRPA Code of Ordinances. (Ord. 1386, 2013; Ord. 898, 2000)
20.702.070 Setback standards
    A.  Except as provided by subsections E and F (scenic corridors and stream environment zone) of this section, and by chapters 1,2, and 3 of Appendix B, Design
Standards and Guidelines to the Community Plans, setback standards for single-family dwellings apply as follows to all principal structures and to all accessory
structures 15 feet or greater in height: 
        1.  The front yard and street side-yard setback is a minimum of 20 feet measured from the edge of the pavement. This setback may be reduced up to 50
percent provided both of the following conditions are met: 
            a.  The slope within the front or street side-yard and building footprint is 25 percent or greater; and 
            b.  A minimum 20 feet of driveway exists between the garage and the edge of the pavement.
        2.  The rear yard setback is a minimum of 20 feet from the property line. 
        3.  The side yard setback is a minimum of 7 feet from the property line to the foundation or wall. Where the roof is designed to convey runoff to the side yard
and size of such roof runoff area exceeds 1,500 square feet, an additional setback of 1 foot for each additional 250 square feet of runoff area must be provided. This
setback may be reduced, but not to less than 7 feet, upon an analysis provided by the applicant demonstrating that snow will not shed across the property line.
Factors to be considered in this reduction include historical records of amount of snow, roof orientation, roof pitch, exposure of roof to sunlight, drifting patterns, and
installation of properly engineered snow-slide restraint devices.
    B.  Except as provided by subsections E and F (scenic corridors and stream environment zones) of this section, and by chapters 1, 2, and 3 of Appendix B, Design
Standards and Guidelines to the Community Plans, setback standards for multi-family dwellings and commercial uses apply as follows to all principal structures and to
all accessory structures 15 feet or greater in height: 
        1.  The front yard setback is a minimum of 10 feet from the property line. 
        2.  The rear yard setback is a minimum of 10 feet from the property line where the parcel or lot is adjacent to a commercial or multi-family use and a minimum
of 15 feet from the property line where the parcel or lot is adjacent to a single-family use. 
        3.  The side yard setback is a minimum of 10 feet from the property line to the foundation or wall. If the structure exceeds two stories, an additional 1-foot
setback for each 2 feet of height is required.
    C.  Setbacks for accessory structures must comply with section 20.664.020. 
    D.  Projections, construction, or equipment are permitted within the required setbacks for all uses only as allowed in this section. Building code requirements may
further restrict the distance required to be maintained from the property lines and other structures: 
        1.  Roof overhangs and eaves, oriel and bay windows, porte cocheres, decks, stairway landings, fireplace chimneys, awnings, canopies, and unenclosed porches
DOUGLAS COUNTY, NV 
Very Rural Community
5/15/2020
24/29
may encroach up to 50 percent into the required front yard and street-side yard setback. Access stairs may encroach into the required front yard and street side-yard
setback a maximum of 5 feet on parcels with an average slope of 16 percent or greater. Elevated driveways and parking decks may be located within the required
front yard or street side-yard setback provided they are no more than 30 inches above the highest adjacent grade. 
        2.  Roof overhangs and eaves, pools, patio covers, tennis courts gazebos, awnings, oriel and bay windows, decks, access stairs and stairway landings, fireplace
chimneys, canopies, and unenclosed porches may encroach up to 50 percent into the required rear yard setback. 
        3.  Roof overhangs and eaves, oriel and bay windows, porches, fireplace chimneys, awnings, and canopies may encroach into the side yard a maximum of 30
inches provided that a minimum 54 inches of clearance is provided for access. 
        4.  Setbacks between structures must conform to current International Building Code provisions.
    E.  Buildings and structures must be set back 20 feet from the highway right-of-way line in accordance with the TRPA Scenic Threshold Roadways standards in
chapter 66 of the TRPA Code of Ordinances for designated corridors except when superseded by chapters 1, 2 and 3 of Appendix B, Design Standards and Guidelines,
to the Community Plans. Deviation from this standard is only permissible as provided for in the TRPA Code of Ordinances. 
    F.  Buildings, structures and other land coverage or disturbance must be set back from stream environment zones (SEZ’s) in accordance with chapter 37 of the
TRPA Code of Ordinance. Deviation from this standard is only permissible as provided for in the TRPA Code of Ordinances. 
    G.  Building setbacks from cuts and fills must be as set forth in chapter 20.690 and as illustrated in Appendix C. (Ord. 1386, 2013; Ord. 898, 2000)
20.702.080 Height standards
    A.  Building heights must comply with chapter 37 of the TRPA Code of Ordinances. 
    B.  Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A, above, the height of structures must not exceed the height of existing forest cover in the vicinity of the
structure, except as permitted under the Tahoe Compact for structures that house gaming. (Ord. 1386, 2013; Ord. 898, 2000)
20.702.090 Specific standards
In addition to the general development standards in contained in section 20.702.100, certain uses are subject to the specific standards in chapters 20.662 through
20.668 inclusive, Specific Standards. The applicable specific standards are shown in Table 20.702.3. (Ord. 898, 2000)
Table 20.702.3 (Specific standards)
Title
Section
Applies
Accessory Dwelling Units
20.664.010 Applies in zoning districts with a prefix of R or M, except C (5) –size limitation, where the
parcel size is greater than one acre.
Accessory Structure
20.664.020 Yes
Bed and Breakfast
20.664.030 Yes
Clustered Development
20.664.040 Applies in zoning districts with a prefix of M
Day Care Center
20.664.050 Yes
Golf Courses
20.664.080 Yes
Large Group Care or Group Home
20.664.090 Yes, except for subsection C.2
Manufactured Homes &
Manufactured Housing
20.664.100 Yes
Manufactured Home Park Design
Standards
20.664.110 Yes
Multi-family Housing
20.664.120 Yes
Recreational Vehicles
20.664.140 Yes
Recreational Vehicle Storage
Facilities
20.664.150 Yes
5/15/2020
Fernley, NV Code of Ordinances
2/4
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(b)
(1)
(2)
(c)
(1)
(d)
Minimum Lot Size 
(Net; excluding
road rights-of-way
or road easements
6,000 square
feet(2) 
8,000 square feet
8,000square
feet(5)
9,000 square feet
12,000 square feet
½ acre
 
Front yard-setback may be reduced by five feet for the front wall, covered porch or entryway of the house, if the front wall of
an attached or detached garage is recessed a minimum of ten feet behind the front area (wall, porch, columns, etc.) of the
house.
For any lot or parcel recorded prior to July 1, 2016, or was included with a tentative map or parcel map application deemed
complete or that was approved by the city prior to July 1, 2016.
The larger setback shall be located on the side of the house closest to the garage.
Setbacks listed are intended to create a building envelope. Development within the envelope may create zero lot line
development.
Minimum lot size may be waived if five or more lots are created and the maximum density is not exceeded.
Accessory buildings.
It is unlawful to construct, erect or locate private garages or other accessory buildings without a permissible main building.
A detached accessory building, not exceeding a mean height of 15 feet may occupy not more than one-half of the total area
of the rear yards; providing, no such accessory building shall be nearer than five feet to the rear and side property line nor
closer than is provided herein to main buildings on the same or adjacent lots, providing there is sufficient area to comply
with any state regulations regarding individual septic disposal systems.
Building height.
The height of the primary residence may be increased to 45 feet (ten additional feet to the maximum height permitted by
section 32.28.050) where the average slope of a lot is greater than one-foot rise or fall in four feet of distance.
Lot area.
FERNLEY, NV  
Semi-Urban (similar to Clinton)
5/15/2020
Fernley, NV Code of Ordinances
3/4
(1)
(2)
(e)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(f)
(1)
a.
b.
c.
(2)
a.
b.
c.
(3)
a.
No lot or parcel shall be reduced in area or width than is required by the applicable zoning district in which such lot is located.
No portion of any lot or parcel of land which is part of required area for an existing building shall be used as a part of
required area of any other lot or parcel or proposed building.
Yards.
Where average slope of the front half of the lot is more than one-foot rise or fall in four feet, the front yard may be reduced
to not less than half of the original setback required by the underlying zoning district.
Side yards. Projecting outside stairs, porches, landing places, fireplaces and the like, if unenclosed, may extend into a
required side yard setback for a distance of not to exceed two feet.
Rear yards. Projecting outside stairs, porches or landing places, fireplaces, and the like, if unenclosed, may extend into a rear
yard setback for a distance of not to exceed four feet.
Recreational vehicles. It is unlawful to reside in a recreational vehicle within the city excepted as provided below:
A temporary use permit to reside in a recreational vehicle may be issued by the city if the following conditions have been
met:
The permittee owns the property on which the recreational vehicle is to be placed;
The permittee has applied and been issued a permit to build a single-family dwelling for his own use on the property
on which the recreational vehicle is to be placed; and
The recreational vehicle is connected to water and sewer/septic facilities.
The following conditions apply:
A temporary use permit may be issued for a period not to exceed one year and may be renewed only once for a period
of six months;
During the period that the temporary use permit is in effect, construction on the dwelling must be ongoing;
The permittee must disconnect the recreational vehicle from all utilities, and discontinue using the recreational vehicle
for residence purposes, when the permit expires or when the dwelling is complete, whichever comes first.
The owner of a subdivision in active construction may apply for a permit to utilize one recreational vehicle as a watchman's
quarters for one year with the possibility of a six-month extension if the following conditions are met:
The permittee owns the land on which the recreational vehicle will be placed.
5/15/2020
Chapter 10.30 GENERAL LAND USE REGULATIONS
https://www.codepublishing.com/UT/Syracuse/#!/Syracuse10/Syracuse1030.html#10.30
27/48
building permit.
(B) Lots Fronting on Arterial and Collector Streets. Residential lots fronting on streets designated by the Syracuse general plan as
arterial or collector streets shall have setbacks to allow for road expansion. Homes that have the main entrance fronting collector and
arterial streets shall have a minimum setback of 40 feet. If the home is otherwise positioned, the setback from the collector or arterial
street shall be 30 feet. Unless otherwise required in Planning Commission review, this section shall not apply to lots positioned on
arterial or collector streets already improved to the designated width outlined in the City’s master transportation plan.
(C) Yard Encroachments. This title prohibits any encroachments into minimum required yard space, other than the following:
(1) Chimneys, bay windows, sills, lintels, cantilevers, or other ornamental features may project not more than 24 inches into
required front, rear, and side yard spaces, provided they are not more than 16 feet in width. This title prohibits side yard
encroachments within cluster subdivisions with side yard setbacks less than seven feet, and in no instance shall the side yard
distance between two primary structures be less than 10 feet.
(2) Unsupported cornices, eaves, gutters, and terraces may project 10 feet into any required front or rear yard and only three feet
into required side yards. Uncovered porches and decks may project 10 feet into any required front or rear yard.
(3) Attached covered decks and patios may encroach into rear yards provided they do not extend closer than 20 feet to the
required rear yard line in all zones aside from the R-3 zone. Attached covered decks and patios may not extend closer than 10 feet
to the rear property line in the R-3 zone.
(4) Fences may encroach, as provided in SCC 10.30.060(A). Signs and yard lights may encroach as provided in Chapter 10.45
SCC. Stairs and ramps may encroach up to three feet to any property line subject to compliance with SCC 10.30.060(A) and (B).
(5) Building accessories designed and intended to control light entering a building, as either a permanent or temporary part of such
building, may project three feet into any required yard space provided they are fixtures on only the wall of the main building.
(6) Gasoline pump islands, where permitted, shall be set back 12 feet. Pump islands under roofs or canopies must comply with
building setback requirements.
SYRACUSE, UT 
Local Example
5/15/2020
Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
https://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/index.php?book_id=372&Itemid=1022
12/15
PUBLIC USE: A use or facility owned and/or operated exclusively by a public body, having the purpose of serving the public health,
safety or general welfare. Government owned buildings and other similar uses, such as libraries and museums, shall be considered
public uses.
PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITY: A building or structure used for the provision of public utilities.
RESTAURANT: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used for the preparation and/or consumption of food and/or drink. This
structure may or may not have on site seating.
RETAIL STORE: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used for the storage, display or sale of goods, wares or merchandise to the
public.
RETAIL TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESS: As defined in section 4-10-3 of this code.
SALE, YARD OR GARAGE: The selling of new or used goods, wares, or merchandise from a garage, carport, or yard. No yard or
garage sale shall exceed forty eight (48) hours in duration. There shall be no more than two (2) yard or garage sales at any one property
or residence within the city in any twelve (12) month period.
SCHOOL: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used for teaching academic subjects from kindergarten through the twelfth grade.
SEMITRAILER: A vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and
constructed so that some part of its weight and its load rests or is carried by another vehicle.
SETBACK: The distance between a building or structure and the adjacent property line or designated right of way at the closest points,
excluding uncovered patios, decks, and balconies not greater than two feet (2') in height from grade, and chimney and roof overhangs
protruding no greater than two feet (2') into the setback area.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Any "nude entertainment business", sexually oriented outcall service, "adult business", seminude
dancing bar, or seminude dancing agency, as defined in title 4, chapter 4 of this code.
SIGN: Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, devices, designs, pictures, trade names or
trademarks by which anything is made known, such as are used to designate a firm, an association, a corporation, a profession, a
business, a service or commodity, a product, or any type of publicity or propaganda, whether placed on the ground, rocks, trees, stumps
or other natural objects, or on a building, wall, roof, frame, support, fence or other manmade object, which are visible from any street,
public highway or public road right of way. For purpose of this title, the term "sign" does not include the flag, pennant, or insignia of any
nation, state, city or other political unit, or of a nonprofit organization. It shall not include any official notice issued by any court or public
body, or officer, or directional, warning or information sign, or structure required or authorized as a nonprofit organization.
SPECIALIZED SCHOOL: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used for educational instruction devoted to a particular subject.
STORAGE FACILITY, COMMERCIAL: A building or structure, or portion thereof, used for the purpose of renting or leasing individual
CLEARFIELD, UT 
Local Example
5/15/2020
Print Preview
https://layton.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.05.030_Requirements_Specific_To_Residential_And_Agricultural_Zoning_Districts,_Lot_Area,_Coverage,_Width,_Minimu…
2/5
does not either abut a dedicated public street or highway, or a private roadway open to the public. However, if an unobstructed, 
recorded easement of right-of-way of ingress and egress exists across property or properties providing the necessary access, the 
aforementioned proscription may be waived. This right-of-way shall comply with pertinent Code provisions and shall not be 
obstructed in any manner without the mutual agreement of the property owner(s) over which said right-of-way is located, the 
beneficiary of said right-of-way, and the City.
This Section shall be retroactive for the purpose of maintaining unobstructed access. It shall be applicable to include any 
residential property, for which a building permit has been issued or the dwelling has been legally constructed.
8. Minimum size of dwellings. No single family dwelling shall be erected which contains less than nine hundred (900) square feet of 
gross main floor area.
9. Projections into required yards. Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky; unobstructed except for accessory 
structures in a rear yard. Certain architectural features may project into required yards or courts as follows:
a. Ordinary projections of belt courses, chimneys, cornices, flues, lintels, solar appurtenances, and sills may project up to two 
feet (2') into required front, rear, and side yard spaces. Eaves, gutters, and roof overhangs may project up to four feet (4') 
into required front, rear, and side yard spaces. Cantilever arch features shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of any wall 
length and shall not project into any required yard space more than two feet (2'). Said yard areas are to be measured from 
the fascia.
b. Roofed and un-walled decks, balconies, porches, or other similar architectural features may project into required front yards 
up to six feet (6'), side yards up to four feet (4'), and rear yards up to ten feet (10'). Said projections into required yard areas 
shall be measured from the fascia.
c. Unless otherwise prohibited, fences, signs, and yard lights are permitted in front, rear, and side yards as provided in 
Chapters 19.16 and 19.20.
d. Building accessories designed and intended to control light entering a building (e.g., aluminum or canvas awnings) and 
being either a permanent or temporary part of such building may project five feet (5') into any front or rear yard space and 
three feet (3') into any side yard space, provided that they are attached only to the wall of the main building.
e. Covered or uncovered walk-out basement features may project up to ten feet (10') into required rear yard spaces and four 
feet (4') into required front and side yard spaces. Said projections into required yard areas shall be measured from the 
foundation line for uncovered walk-outs and the fascia for covered walk-outs.
10. Limitation on front setback requirements. No dwelling shall be set back more than one hundred feet (100') from a front lot line 
unless approved by the  Development Staff.  (See Title 18, Land Use Development.)
11. On any residential dwelling structure, a permanent roof or canopy may be added to the main building at any time. Such canopy 
may extend into the required rear yard a maximum of ten feet (10'), but may not extend into any required front or side yard. 
Canopies shall not have walls other than the attachment to the main building.
12. Substandard lots. The requirements of this Title as to minimum lot area or lot width shall not be construed to prevent the use for a 
LAYTON, UT 
Local Example
PLEASANT VIEW CITY 
TITLE 18  - ZONING
 
 
 
 
18 -129 
 
18.42.060 Sale or Lease of Required Space. No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, 
coverage, parking or other requirements of this title for a lot or building may be sold or leased 
away from such lot or building. (Ord. 87-17.03 (part), 1987: prior code §34-14-5) 
 
18.42.070 Sale of Lots below Minimum Space Requirements. No parcel of land which has less 
than the minimum width and area requirements for the zone in which it is located may be cut off 
from a larger parcel of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building or 
development as a lot, except by permit of the board of adjustment. (Ord. 87-17.03 (part), 1987: 
prior code §34-14-6) 
 
18.42.080 Yards to Be UnobstructedCExceptions. Every part of a required yard shall be open to the 
sky unobstructed except for accessory buildings in a rear yard, the ordinary projections of 
skylights, sills, belt courses, chimney cornices and other ornamental features, and fire escapes, 
fireproof outside stairways and balconies opening upon fire towers projection into a yard not more 
than five feet. (Ord. 87-17.03 (part), 1987: prior code §34-14-7) 
 
18.42.090 Accessory Buildings Area. No accessory building nor group of accessory buildings in any 
residential zone shall cover more than twenty-five percent of the rear yard. 
(Ord. 87-17.03 (part), 1987: prior code §34-14-8) 
 
18.42.100 Height Allowance-Additional. Public, semipublic or public service buildings or hotels, 
when authorized in a zone, may be erected to a height not exceeding seventy-five feet if the 
building is set back from each other established building line at least one foot for each additional 
foot of building height above the normal height limit required for the zone in which the building is 
erected. (Ord. 87-17.03 (part), 1987: prior code §34-14-9) 
 
18.42.110 Height Limitations-Exceptions. Penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators, 
stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the 
building, and fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, 
water tanks, wireless or television masts, theater lofts, silos or similar structures may be erected 
above the height limits prescribed in this chapter, but no space above the height limit shall be 
allowed for the purpose of providing additional floor space and no heights are permitted above the 
maximum allowed under airport height regulations of Weber County. (Ord- 87-17.03 
(part), 1987: prior code §34-14-10) 
 
18.42.120 Main Building Minimum Height. No dwelling shall be erected to a height less than one 
story above grade. (Ord. 87-17.03 (part), 1987: prior code §34-14-11) 
 
18.42.130 Accessory Building Maximum Height. No building which is accessory to a one-family, 
two-family, three-family or four-family dwelling shall be erected to a height greater than one story 
or twenty feet. (Ord. 87-17-03 (part), 1987: prior code §34-14-12) 
 
18.42.140 Clear View of Intersecting Streets. In all zones which require a front yard, no obstruction 
to view in excess of two feet in height shall be placed or permitted to remain on any corner lot 
within a triangular area formed by the street property lines and a line connecting them at points 
fifteen feet from the intersection of the street lines. The city council shall have the authority to 
suspend or modify the requirements of this section upon an application by a citizen affected 
thereby. The application shall be filed with the city council in writing and shall set forth in the 
application the reasons why this section should be suspended or modified. (Ord. 87-17.03 (part), 
PLEASANT VIEW, UT 
Local Example
5/15/2020
Chapter 17.45 EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
https://www.codepublishing.com/UT/WestPoint/#!/WestPoint17/WestPoint1745.html#17.45.060
2/3
B. Flagpoles within the height limits herein prescribed are permitted uses in all zone districts. Flagpoles erected above the height limits herein
prescribed are conditional uses in all zone districts.
C. On a pitched or hipped roof that extends upward from within 12 feet of the finished grade, the building height shall be measured to the average
height of the highest gable.
D. No main building shall be erected to a height less than 10 feet. [Code 2000 § 17-16-2].
17.45.030 Area requirement exceptions.
In any district where no public sanitary sewer is accessible, and regardless of any lot area or width elsewhere prescribed for said district, no lot
shall have an area or width less than that required by the health departments of Davis County or the state of Utah for the satisfactory functioning of
a septic tank on the property. [Code 2000 § 17-16-3].
17.45.040 Front yard exceptions and modifications.
A. In any R district, where the average depth of at least two existing front yards on lots within 100 feet of the lot in question and within the same
block is less than the least front yard depth prescribed for said R district, the front yard of such lot may be reduced to the average depth of the
existing front yards within 100 feet of the lot in question, or the average depth of existing front yards of the two lots immediately adjoining, or, in the
case of a corner lot, the depth of the front yard on the lot immediately adjoining, and facing on the same street as the lot in question.
B. The carport of a duplex or multiple-family dwelling may be in the front yard if the main building is set back so that the required front yard is
provided between the front lot line and the closest part of the carport. [Code 2000 § 17-16-4].
17.45.050 Distance between residential structures – Exceptions or modifications.
A. The width of one side yard may be reduced or eliminated when authorized by the board of adjustment, to a width not less than three feet,
provided the sum of the width of the two side yards is not less than the sum of the required minimum yards, and further provided the distance
between the proposed dwelling and another dwelling, existing or proposed, on an adjacent lot is not less than the sum of the two side yards
regularly required in this title. Such reduction may be authorized only when the board of adjustment finds it to be warranted by the location of
existing buildings or conducive to the desirable development of two or more lots.
B. A side yard along the side street lot line of a corner lot, which abuts in the rear the side lot line of another lot in an R district, shall have a width
of not less than one-half of the required depth of the front yard on such other lot fronting the side street. [Code 2000 § 17-16-5].
17.45.060 Projections into required yards – Exceptions or modifications.
Certain architectural features may project into required yards or courts as follows:
A. Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed except for accessory building in a rear yard, and except for the ordinary
projections of skylights, sills, belt courses, and other ornamental features.
B. Open or lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways, and balconies opening upon fire towers projecting into a yard not more than
five feet; and the ordinary projections of chimneys and flues are permitted.
WEST POINT, UT 
Local Example
5/15/2020
Chapter 17.45 EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
https://www.codepublishing.com/UT/WestPoint/#!/WestPoint17/WestPoint1745.html#17.45.060
3/3
C. Architectural features which shall be allowed to project into required yards or courts include, but are not limited to, decks and balconies. [Code
2000 § 17-16-6].
17.45.070 Essential services.
Underground distribution and transmission systems shall be permitted in all districts without obtaining a zoning certificate; however, a license must
first be obtained from the city before utilizing any public utility easement or any city street or right-of-way. [Code 2000 § 17-16-7].
17.45.080 Resident installing of curb, gutter and sidewalk to be put on building permit.
The individual property owner(s) will be responsible for installing the curb, gutter and sidewalk if and when required by the city. This statement is to
be placed on each individual building permit, so they will be knowledgeable of this requirement.
All improvements required by the city are to be placed on the recorded deed and as a requirement on the building permit. [Code 2000 § 17-16-8].
Mobile Version
REV 5/19/2020 
Proximity to Intersection and Visual Clearance Triangle  
Text Amendment Discussion & Analysis 
 
This text amendment has been made at the request of a resident that it looking at purchasing a new 
home and in reviewing the current requirements for driveway locations and intersections in the single 
family zones felt forty feet was excessive.   Staff has also identified over the last couple of years that 
corner fencing often comes up as an issue for residents.  The City’s requirement for fencing to be 
located outside of the 40 foot clear vision triangle on residential (local) streets is extreme when in 
context the current definition describes increased traffic and non-residential settings. In consultation 
with the City Engineering and Public Works, a reduction in the visual clearance triangle to 20 feet is 
appropriate.   
 
The following table summarizes the triangle distances of surrounding cities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 4 revisions consist of reducing the Proximity to Intersection standards from 40 feet down to 20 
feet. Proposed changes to Chapter 2 are the Visual Clearance Triangle definition, so that it can be used 
in conjunction with the standards administered during plan review, which also makes the definition 
consistent with the single time the term is mentioned in the Chapter 3 Fence Regulations.  In addition, 
reference to Sight Triangle is added and then the Sight Triangle definition has been revised to cross 
reference Visual Clearance Triangle for residential standards.  Should a circumstance arise in a 
residential setting that such a corner lot is not located on two local roads the City Engineer may require 
an increase in the triangle distance up to 40 feet.  
 
 
                                                          
 
1 Corrections made to this table were to incorporate a conversion of measuring the distance of the clear triangle 
from property line, versus the back of curb.  Also, another comparison City was included in the table as well.  
Bountiful as a 30 foot setback and have found that to work well with the topography they have in their city; 
whereas, Clinton is flat and would not have the same visibility challenges.  
CITY 
SITE TRIANGLE DISTANCE1 
Clearfield, UT 
10 feet 
Pleasant View, UT 
15 feet 
Kaysville, UT 
20 feet 
Syracuse, UT 
20 feet 
Bountiful, UT 
30 feet 
Layton, UT 
30 feet 
West Point, UT 
20 feet rear/ 40 feet front  
Clinton City Zoning Ordinance 
 
Title 28 
Parking 
 
Chapter 4 
 
 
Page46 
28-4-13 Loading Space Requirements.  No 
building shall be designed, erected, altered, increased 
in capacity, used or occupied, and no land shall be 
used or occupied for manufacturing, storage, 
warehouse, goods display, vehicle sales, department 
store, grocery, hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry 
cleaning, or other uses similarly involving the receipt 
or distribution, by vehicle, of materials or 
merchandise, unless adequate off-street loading space 
is provided therefore, excepting that off-street 
loading space need not be provided for buildings or 
uses actually occupied, operated, or used on the 
effective date of the ordinance codified herein, where 
no such space has been provided, unless such 
buildings are thereafter enlarged, increased in 
capacity, expanded or have change of occupancy. 
(1) Loading Space Berth Requirements:  Each use for 
which off-street loading space is required shall 
provide the number of loading berths necessary to 
properly service that use, plus an area or means for 
adequate ingress and egress to each berth. Where any 
required or permitted loading dock or area is to be 
constructed in conjunction with a proposed use which 
is adjoining a residential zoning district, said loading 
dock or area shall be screened from the adjoining 
property by constructing a light-tight masonry wall or 
solid fence at a height to be determined by the 
Planning Commission but not exceeding eight feet. A 
landscape buffer may also be specifically required by 
the Planning Commission which shall be properly 
maintained in perpetuity by the commercial/industrial 
use. 
(2) Loading Space Location:  Off-street loading 
space shall be located on the same site or lot as the 
use for which it is provided. No loading space shall 
be designed, arranged, or used where all or part of the 
space would permit loading, unloading, or service 
from a public street or sidewalk. 
(3) Loading Space Maintenance:  Off-street loading 
facilities, either existing or hereafter provided, shall 
not thereafter be decreased, but shall be maintained in 
order to provide continuous use, if necessary. 
28-4-14 Authorization for Parking Space 
Reduction or Combination.  The Board of Zoning 
Adjustments may authorize reduction of off-street 
parking and loading space as follows: 
(1) Reduction in Parking Space:  The Board of 
Zoning Adjustments may authorize on appeal, a 
reduction in the proportions required in this chapter if 
it should find that in the particular case, the peculiar 
nature of the buildings or premises, or the exceptional 
situation or condition would mitigate the need for the 
parking spaces as specified in this chapter. 
(2) Combine Parking Space:  When two dissimilar 
uses are located adjacent to each other and the 
demand for parking in conjunction with those uses 
would not conflict, the Board of Zoning Adjustments 
may authorize the use of such combined facilities 
requiring the maximum number of parking spaces for 
the larger use. 
28-4-15 Access to Residential Property Including 
Four or Less Dwellings.150, 203, 204  Access to parking 
spaces and private garages used in conjunction with 
dwellings shall be limited as follows: 
(1) Proximity to Intersection:  Driveways shall be 
located a minimum of forty (40)  twenty (20) feet 
from any street intersection. Said measurement to be 
taken from the point of intersection of the two 
converging front lot lines lying tangent to and in the 
same direction as the front lot lines, to the edge of the 
driveway. 
(2) Proximity to Property Line:  No driveway 
approach shall be located closer than four and one-
half (4 ½) feet to a side lot line of a lot as it is 
projected to the back of the curb and gutter. This 
measurement is to be taken to the beginning of the 
flare or radius on the curb. 
(3) Drainage:  A driveway on private property may 
be constructed up to the side or rear property line so 
long as the driveway does not interfere with the 
surface drainage of the lot or adjacent lots where 
drainage easements are provided. The drainage from 
the driveway must be kept within the property. 
(4) Driveways and Accessory Parking: 173,199, 203,  204 
(a) All driveways, streets, isles, etc. intended to 
provide a means of access to parking spaces intended 
to meet the requirements of this chapter shall be 
paved with a hard surface and shall have a hard 
surface approach designed to meet the requirements 
of the Clinton City Engineering and Standard 
Specifications. 199 
(b) Accessory parking areas on a lot with a single 
family residential unit with an established driveway 
that meets the requirements of “a” above are allowed 
within the front setback area of a lot based upon the 
following criteria: 
Clinton City Zoning Ordinance 
 
Title 28 
Definitions 
 
Chapter 2 
 
 
 
 
Page27 
care of up to eight (8) children, related and unrelated, 
between the ages of three (3) and six (6) years of age 
for up to three (3) hours at any one time, conducted 
no more than five (5) times per week and where 
meals are not served.  Children under the age of six 
(6), of the owner/resident, shall be included in the 
number of children allowed in the preschool. 
“Public Utility Substation” 95 means a structure, 
site, area, or similar facility associated with a utility 
such as telecommunications, power, sanitary sewer, 
water, or similar utility that is constructed on site and 
intended to supplement or increase the capability of 
the utility.  Substations are generally: built on site, 
within an enclosed area or constructed as part of an 
overall facility site; taller than 6-feet; large enough or 
intended for a person to enter; or any combination of 
these items.  Examples of a Public Utility Substation 
could be but are not limited to pumping stations, 
cellular phone towers, power substations, and 
telecommunication structures larger than otherwise 
defined in this ordinance. 
 “Retail” 71 means the sale of goods or articles 
individually or in small quantities directly to the 
consumer. 
“Right-of-Way” means any street, alley or similar 
parcel of land essentially unobstructed from the 
ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or 
otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for 
public use. 
“Setback” 95, 104, 190 means the measurement taken 
from the property line to the outer surface of the 
building wall at its furthermost extension toward the 
lot line.  Building wall shall be interpreted to  does 
not include any cantilevered exterior walls, bays, or 
bump-outs extending beyond the foundation of two 
feet or less.  Such setback encroachments are not 
permitted in the side yards of the PH Zone. 
(1) Unenclosed porches, located within the front yard 
setback, with or without a patio cover shall be 
excluded from such setback measurement if the porch 
conforms to each of the following three sub-sections. 
(a) Total length does not exceed 15% of the length of 
the dwelling (excluding attached garages). 
(b) Does not protrude into an excess of 15% of the 
required front yard setback distance. 
(c) Any roof covering must conform to a. and b. 
(2) Unenclosed, rear or side porches shall be 
excluded from setback measurement if the porch 
conforms to each of the following sub-stations. 
(a) Total width of the patio, deck, or porch does not 
extend into the required side-lot setback on one side 
of the dwelling.  The patio, deck, or porch shall not 
extend at any point extend above grade within any 
required side-lot setback.   
(b) Total impervious surface ratio, established 
elsewhere in this ordinance is not exceeded. 
(c) Rear setback of the porch is not less than one-half 
of the required setback. 
(d) Design shall be such that run-off does not flow 
onto adjoining property 
(e) Any roof covering shall not infringe upon 
minimum side lot setback requirements. 
(f) Unenclosed covered detached porches shall meet 
the requirements of an accessory building. For the 
purpose of this section unattached means not directly 
attached to the dwelling. 
(3) Enclosed, rear, or side porches shall conform to 
the setback requirements for the main dwelling when 
attached or for accessory buildings when unattached.  
“Sexually Oriented Business” 71 shall be defined as 
provided in Title 19, Chapter 2, of the Clinton 
Municipal code. 
“Shed” or “Yard Shed” 169, 219 means an enclosed 
space or covered area outside of an enclosed space 
less than 200 square feet, not including eves, for the 
storage of yard tools and supplies, motorized yard 
equipment, and household items, etc..  Includes 
greenhouses, play houses, forts, and other play 
structures.  Does not include landscape features such 
as pergolas, arbors, or other skeleton type structures. 
“Shed Temporary” 169 means an enclosed space 
used for temporary storage of household goods.  An 
example of a temporary shed is a commercial product 
called a “Pod”. 
“Sight Triangle” 126 means the triangular area at the 
intersection of two streets or a street(s) and drive 
designed for increased traffic flow into a commercial, 
light manufacturing, office or similar area formed by 
measuring a distance of 40 feet along both lot lines 
back from the point of intersection of said lines.  
Where no lot line exists or where the lot line is less 
than 9 ½ feet from the back of the curb measuring 
distance shall be 49 ½ feet from the back of curb or 
edge of asphalt.  At no time shall the sight triangle be 
less than 40 feet from the planned right-of-way line 
for a street. (Refer to Visual Clearance Triangle for 
residential standards.) 
“Sign” means a presentation of words, letters, 
figures, designs, pictures, or colors publicly displayed 
so as to give notice relative to a person, a business, an 
article or merchandise, a service, an assemblage, a 
Clinton City Zoning Ordinance 
 
Title 28 
Definitions 
 
Chapter 2 
 
 
 
 
Page29 
lot occupied by the main use and devoted exclusively 
to the main use of the premises. 
“Use, Conditional” means a use or occupancy of a 
building, or use of land, permitted only when 
authorized upon issuance of a Conditional Use Permit 
and subject to the limitations and conditions specified 
therein as provided in 28-5, intended to allow 
compatible integration of uses which may be suitable 
only in certain locations within a particular zone, or 
only upon certain conditions and/or design criteria 
being achieved. 
“Use, Permitted” means any use lawfully occupying 
land or buildings as authorized in the zone 
regulations and for which no Conditional Use Permit 
is required. 
“Visual Clearance Triangle” 126 the triangular area 
at the intersection of two local (residential) roads 
measuring a distance of 20 feet along the front 
property lines/street right-of-way lines to the point of 
intersection of the two lines. If increased traffic flow 
is identified (e.g. residential lots are not at an 
intersection of two local roads), the City Engineer 
may require a Sight Triangle distance of up to 40 
feet. see (Refer to Sight Triangle for non-residential 
standards.) 
“Width of Lot” The distance between the side lot 
lines measured along the minimum front yard setback 
line. 
“Yard” means an open space on a lot, other than a 
court, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground 
upward by buildings, except as otherwise provided 
herein. 
“Yard, Front” means an open space extending the 
full width of the lot measured between the front lot 
line and the closest part of the main building, which 
open space is unoccupied and unobstructed from the 
ground upward except as specified elsewhere in this 
ordinance. 
“Yard, Rear” 3 means an open space between a 
building and rear lot line, unoccupied and 
unobstructed from ground upward and extending 
across the full width of the lot, except as specified 
elsewhere in this Ordinance. On lots that are other 
than rectangular in shape, the required minimum rear 
yard may be an average of the distances measured 
from the rear corners of a dwelling to the nearest 
point of the rear lot line; however, the shortest 
distance used in determining the average may not be 
less than twenty (20) feet. 
“Yard, Side” means an open space extending from 
the front yard to the rear yard between a building and 
the nearest side lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed 
from the ground upward except as specified 
elsewhere in this Ordinance.  A side-yard on the 
street side of a corner lot shall be known as an 
exterior side yard. 
(1) On lots where the side lot lines are not parallel, 
the required minimum side-yard on one side only 
may be an average of the distances measured from 
the side corners of the structure to the nearest point of 
the side lot line.  However, the shortest distance used 
in determining the average may not be less than 8 
feet in a side yard requiring a ten (10) foot setback 
and may not be less than six (6) feet in a side yard 
requiring an 8 foot setback. This method of averaging 
does not apply to the exterior side yard.14 
“Zero Lot Line” 126 The configuration of a building 
on a lot such that one or more of the building’s sides 
located on and along the lot line. 
“Zone” The geographical area of the City within 
which the zoning regulations are uniform 
 
 
 
 
Historic Changes to Chapter (see chapter 24 for 
details) 
3, 4, 8, 9, 13, 14, 17, 19, 20, 21, 26, 35, 38, 67, 69, 
71, 88, 95, 104, 106, 118, 119, 125, 126, 148, 161, 
162, 163, 165, 169, 170, 172, 174, 175, 179, 
181,198,199, 219 
 
ORDINANCE NO.  20-01Z 
 
ZONING TEXT CHANGE 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2 OF THE CLINTON 
CITY ZONING ORDINANCE REGARDING STANDARDS FOR 
SETBACK PROJECTIONS AND VISUAL CLEARANCE 
TRIANGLE.  
 
WHEREAS, 
 
Clinton City has established an ordinance regulating zoning within the 
City; and 
 
WHEREAS, 
 
The Clinton City Planning Commission and City Council has convened 
public hearings and has determined that changes are needed in this 
ordinance to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens; 
 
NOW 
THEREFORE, 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF CLINTON CITY, 
DAVIS COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH: 
 
BY MOTION 
 
The Clinton City Council voted to adopt this Ordinance. 
 
 
 
SECTION 1. Enactment 
 
Chapter 2 Definitions Setback, Sight Triangle and Visual Clearance Triangle shall be 
amended as described below: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2. Planning Commission Action  
 
Reviewed in a public hearing the 19th day of May 2020, by the Clinton City Planning 
Commission and recommended for approval through a motion passed by a majority of the 
members of the Commission based upon the following findings. 
 
For Favorable Action (Adoption): 
• 
Proposed changes do not adversely affect the effectiveness of the Ordinance and are 
consistent with the intent of the General Plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3. Severability.  In the event that any provision of this Ordinance is declared 
invalid for any reason, the remaining provisions shall remain in effect. 
 
SECTION 4. Effective date.  This ordinance shall be recorded and become effective upon 
the date of posting indicated below.  
 
 
PASSED AND ORDERED RECORDED AND POSTED by the Council of Clinton City, 
Utah, this 9th day of June, 2020. 
 
 
 
May 4, 2020 
___________________________________________ 
NOTICE PUBLISHED 
L. MITCH ADAMS 
 
MAYOR 
ATTEST:  
 
 
 
______________________________________________ 
DENNIS W. CLUFF 
CITY RECORDER 
 
Posted:  ____________ 
 
 
CLINTON CITY 
COUNCIL AGENDA ITEM 
 
SUBJECT: Request for a two year extension of Monarch Meadows Phase 
3 plat approvals.  
  
AGENDA ITEM: E  
 
SUBMITTED BY: Valerie Claussen, Community Development  
MEETING DATE:  
June 9, 2020           
RECOMMENDATION: Move to approve a two year extension for Monarch 
Phase 3 plat approvals through July 12, 2022. 
ROLL CALL VOTE: 
           No 
FISCAL IMPACT: N/A 
BACKGROUND: 
(A) 
The Monarch Meadows subdivision was approved in July 2018.  Monarch Meadows Phase 2 final plat was 
recorded July 12, 2019.  Pursuant to the City’s Subdivision Ordinance, subsequent phases are to be recorded 
within one year of the previous phase.  Knowing at this point in time that Phase 3 will not be recorded until this 
next year, Ivory has requested an extension on plat approvals.  Staff recommends a two year extension. 
ATTACHMENTS:   (A) Vicinity Map 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1300 North
3000 W
CLINTON CITY 
COUNCIL AGENDA ITEM 
 
SUBJECT: Final Acceptance of public improvements at Stonegate, Phase 
1 located in the vicinity of  the 2300 North and 3430 West 
  
AGENDA ITEM: F  
 
SUBMITTED BY: Val Claussen, Community Development and  
Dave Williams, Public Works 
MEETING DATE:  
June 9, 2020           
RECOMMENDATION: Move to approve the final acceptance of Stongate, 
Phase 2 subdivision improvements, and authorize the release of the remaining 
funds held in escrow.  
ROLL CALL VOTE: 
           No 
FISCAL IMPACT: N/A 
BACKGROUND: 
(A) 
Stonegate Phase 1 has completed the warranty period. The developer has requested Final Acceptance of the 
public improvements for this phase of the subdivision.  Public Works has inspected the improvements for this 
phase and the release of remaining escrow funds is recommended.  
ATTACHMENTS:   (A) Stonegate Phase 1, Public Works Inspection Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
`
 
MAYOR 
L. Mitch Adams 
 
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS 
Anna Stanton 
Karen Peterson 
Mike Petersen 
Barbara Patterson 
TJ Mitchell 
 
 
This meeting was conducted electronically 
Date of Meeting 
May 12, 2020 
7:00 PM 
Called to Order: 7:00 p.m. 
Staff Present 
City Manager Dennis Cluff, Community Development Director Valerie Claussen, Fire 
Chief Dave Olsen, Public Works Director Dave Williams, Josh Rhees, Dave Powers, 
Tim Vega, Treasurer Steve Hubbard and Lisa Titensor recorded the minutes. 
Citizens Present 
There were none. 
Roll Call & 
Attendance 
Mayor Adams, Councilmember Anna Stanton, Councilmember Karen Peterson, 
Councilmember TJ Mitchell, Councilmember Mike Petersen, Councilmember Barbara 
Patterson 
Public Input 
There was no public input. 
A. EMPLOYEE OF THE MONTH FOR APRIL 2020 – CAROL WEBER 
Petitioner 
Dennis Cluff, Steve Hubbard 
Discussion 
Treasurer Steve Hubbard reported Carol is one of the most valuable assets to the City’s 
operations as well as in the Treasurer Department. She began her career with Clinton in 
1996.  She has been serving in her current position as Accounts Payable Technician 
since July 2002.  Carol is very accurate and makes sure the City is always current on its 
financial obligations. She is very hard-working and dependable, arriving early for her 
scheduled shifts and strategically scheduling her time off to coordinate with other office 
employees for adequate department coverage.  She continues to provide assistance to the 
front counter efforts by taking payments and answering phone calls when needed. 
Additional duties as assigned are back-up to Amber in tracking the cell phone 
assignments and taking on a new assignment for tracking expenditures and missed 
revenue to prepare for upcoming reporting on COVID-19 reimbursements. 
 
An interesting fact is that when the “Employee of the Month” recognition was first 
initiated under the direction of Mayor DeMar Mitchell, Carol was the first employee to 
receive the honor. 
 
Mayor Adams recognized Carol and expressed appreciation for her good work. 
 
Carol expressed appreciation for the recognition and the efforts and support of the City 
Council and Management Staff. 
B. REQUEST FOR INCREASE IN CITY’S GARBAGE COLLECTION SERVICES RATE PER CAN 
FROM ROBINSON WASTE SERVICES 
Petitioner 
Steve Robinson, Dennis Cluff 
Discussion 
Mr. Cluff explained Robinson Waste Services, Inc (RWS) is entering their 3rd year of a 
5-year extension granted in May of 2017.  Part of that agreement was to not have any 
CLINTON CITY COUNCIL MINUTES 
CITY HALL 
 2267 North 1500 W Clinton UT 84015 
 
 
 
May 12, 2020 
Clinton City Council Meeting Minutes 
Page 2 
rate increases for the first 3 years, with the allowance for a potential rate increase 
entering the 4th year based on the CPI.  The CPI has risen over 9% over these past 3 
years. However, RWS is only requesting a 5% increase to begin July 1, 2020.  If 
granted, this would increase the cost to the City from $4.13 to $4.34 for the 1st can and 
from $1.93 to $2.03 for the 2nd and/or additional cans.   
 
This potential increase in the cost of collections has been factored into the current 
Tentative Budget for FY 20-21.  As previously discussed, no proposed increase in the 
citizen’s collection rate is currently planned.  For the moment the increase in the 
collected can cost would be made up with the Solid Waste Fund balance.  As the 
economy recovers staff recommends looking at this and other Enterprise Funds to 
determine if they may be in need of additional funds to cover operational costs. 
CONCLUSION 
Councilmember K. Peterson moved to grant a 5% can collection increase to 
Robinson Waste Services, Inc., modifying their contract with the City.  
Councilmember Patterson seconded the motion.  Voting by roll call is as follows:  
Councilmember K. Peterson, Councilmember M. Petersen, aye; Councilmember 
Stanton, aye; Councilmember Mitchell, aye; Councilmember Patterson, aye. 
C. PUBLIC HEARING 7:05 PM - TENTATIVE FY 2020-21 BUDGET ADOPTION 
Petitioner 
Dennis Cluff 
Discussion 
Mr. Cluff reported this is the public hearing to adopt the FY 20-21 Tentative Budget as 
discussed and approved at the April 28th City Council meeting.  The recommended 
changes from that discussion have been made to the draft budget and adjustments to 
project funds to reflect current year and carryover work completion.  Additionally a few 
typo and addition corrections were made in the budget detail reports.  Pass through fee 
increases for County Animal Care/Control ($0.15/mo) and County Dispatch ($0.10/mo) 
are also part of the revenue structure for this new Fiscal Year in order to cover these 
added contractual costs. 
 
He proposed setting a public hearing for Tuesday June 23, 2020 at the regular City 
Council meeting to certify the new tax rate and adopt the Final FY 2020-21 budgets. 
 
Mayor Adams opened the public hearing at 7:15 p.m. and with no public comment, 
closed the public hearing at 7:17 p.m. 
CONCLUSION 
Councilmember Mitchell moved to adopt the Tentative Budget for FY 2020-21, and 
set a Public Hearing for adoption of the Final Budget/Tax Rate Certification for 
Tuesday June 23, 2020 at 7:05 PM.  Councilmember Stanton seconded the motion.  
Voting by roll call is as follows:  Councilmember K. Peterson, Councilmember M. 
Petersen, aye; Councilmember Stanton, aye; Councilmember Mitchell, aye; 
Councilmember Patterson, aye. 
D. RESOLUTION 07-20, INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT WITH DAVIS COUNTY FOR 
DISPATCH SERVICES 
Petitioner 
Dennis Cluff, Police Chief Chilson and Fire Chief Olsen 
Discussion 
Mr. Cluff reported Davis County Communications Services provides the dispatch 
services for our Police and Fire.  They are modifying their billing format to charge a 
fixed rate per Police Officer ($2,426/yr) and continue on a per call basis for the Fire.  A 
$0.10/household per month increase is needed and budgeted in next fiscal year’s 
expense to cover this Dispatch Fee increase. The Agreement “term” is for one fiscal 
year, with cooperative agreed upon extensions not to exceed more than 50 years from 
July 1, 2017. 
CONCLUSION 
Councilmember K. Peterson moved to adopt Resolution 07-20, approving the 
Interlocal Agreement with Davis County for Dispatch Services.  Councilmember 
Stanton seconded the motion.  Voting by roll call is as follows:  Councilmember K. 
Peterson, Councilmember M. Petersen, aye; Councilmember Stanton, aye; 
 
 
May 12, 2020 
Clinton City Council Meeting Minutes 
Page 3 
Councilmember Mitchell, aye; Councilmember Patterson, aye. 
A. FINAL ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT FOR HARRISBURG ESTATES PH 5 
(LOCATED AT APPROX. NORTH OF 800 N AND 2700 W) 
Petitioner 
Valerie Claussen, Community Development, Dave Williams, Public Works 
Discussion 
Harrisburg Estates Phase 5 has completed the warranty period. The developer has requested Final 
Acceptance of the public improvements for this subdivision. Public Works has inspected the 
improvements and recommend the release of remaining funds held in escrow. 
CONCLUSION 
Councilmember Stanton moved to approve the final acceptance of Harrisburg 
Estates Phase 5 subdivision improvements and authorize the release of the remaining funds 
held in escrow.  Councilmember Patterson seconded the motion.  Voting by roll call 
is as follows:  Councilmember K. Peterson, Councilmember M. Petersen, aye; 
Councilmember Stanton, aye; Councilmember Mitchell, aye; Councilmember 
Patterson, aye. 
Approval of 
Minutes 
Councilmember K. Peterson moved to approve the minutes of the April 14, 2020 
City Council Meeting.  Councilmember Stanton seconded the motion.  
Councilmembers K. Peterson, Mitchell, M. Petersen, Stanton and Patterson voted in 
favor of the motion. 
Accounts Payable 
Councilmember M. Petersen moved to pay the bills and authorize the Mayor to sign 
on behalf of the Council.  Councilmember Mitchell seconded the motion.  
Councilmembers K. Peterson, M. Petersen, Stanton, Mitchell and Patterson voted in 
favor of the motion. 
Planning 
Commission 
Report 
Ms. Claussen reported the May 5, 2020 Planning Commission meeting was cancelled. 
City Manager 
• Memorial Day is Monday, May 25. 
• The City Council agreed to cancel the May 26, 2020 City Council Meeting. 
• Shred Day is May 16, 10 am to 12 pm in the west parking lot. 
Mayor Adams 
• 1300 N Round-a-bout completion date is anticipated for mid June to the end of 
June; the delay is due to equipment shipping delays for DWCCC’s portion. 
• 800 N grant money will fund the project to 2550 W, the rest of the project will be 
postponed to seek more funds to complete to 3000 W. 
Councilmember 
Patterson 
• Road closed sign on 1800 N and 1000 W going South is down. 
Councilmember 
K. Peterson 
• Received emails from residents requesting Utopia; asked to review the survey that 
will be sent to the residents. 
Mayor Adams is concerned about sending the survey now, because the survey results 
may be skewed based on the current situation with Covid-19. 
• Asked how long the intersection at 1300 N 2000 W will be closed. 
Mr. Williams responded the project is replacing the water line; the project should be 
complete in the upcoming week.    
• Would like the Council to consider holding the June meeting in person. 
Councilmember 
M. Petersen 
• Nothing at this time. 
Councilmember 
Mitchell 
• Nothing at this time. 
Councilmember 
Stanton 
• Nothing at this time. 
ADJOURNMENT 
Councilmember M. Petersen moved to adjourn.  Councilmember K. Peterson 
seconded the motion.  Councilmembers K. Peterson, Mitchell, Stanton, M. Petersen 
and Patterson voted in favor of the motion.  The meeting adjourned at _ p.m. 
 
 
May 12, 2020 
Clinton City Council Meeting Minutes 
Page 4 
ACTION ITEMS 
• 
Subdivision Ordinance – recommendation for concrete in the park strips along 
UDOT roads. (August 2016) – Planning Commission Review 
• 
Bring back Chapter 4 of the Subdivision Ordinance regarding allowing a letter 
of credit for escrow and researching what surrounding jurisdictions allow (26-4-
8). 6g(January 2017) Planning Commission Review 
• 
Update Ordinance to eliminate pressurized sewer lines in the Clinton City 
streets on new residential development (January 2018). 
• 
Create a facilities maintenance plan before the next budget cycle in FY 19-20 
(May 2018). 
• 
Remove river rock from the low maintenance material allowed for park strips in 
the ordinance (Aug 2019). 
 
________________________________________ 
Dennis W. Cluff, Clinton City Recorder 
 
