The City of Falls Church is committed to the letter and spirit of the Americans with Disabilities Act. 
To request a reasonable accommodation for any type of disability, call 703-248-5468, (TTY 711).  
 
 
 
 
    
 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY BUSINESS SUPPLY FUND 
COMMITTEE MEETING AGENDA 
Wednesday, June 10, 2020  10 a.m. 
Virtual Meeting – https://meet.lync.com/fallschurch-fallschurchva/ngoodwin/CM2RBJZZ?sl=1 
 
NOTICE: The meeting for which this agenda has been posted will be held pursuant to and in 
compliance with the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, Section 2.2-3708.2 and state and 
local legislation adopted to allow for continued government operation during the COVID-19 
declared emergency. 
 
All participating members of the EDA’s Business Supply Fund Committee will be present at this 
meeting through electronic means. All members of the public may view this electronic meeting 
via t via this Skype meeting link: https://meet.lync.com/fallschurch-
fallschurchva/ngoodwin/CM2RBJZZ?sl=1.  
 
Public comments may be submitted to ngoodwin@fallschurchav.gov until 10 a.m. on June 10, 
2020. All comments will be provided to the Business Supply Fund Committee members and 
comments received by the deadline will be read during the meeting. 
 
PLEASE NOTE: This meeting will be conducted via Skype. If you do not already use Skype, 
you will be prompted to install it when clicking the meeting link, so please take some time ahead 
of the meeting to do so. If needed, there are short instructions to install the app following the 
meeting agenda. Please email ngoodwin@fallschurchva.gov if you need assistance with 
installation. During the meeting, staff will likely not be available to assist with installation. 
 
 
1. Call to order and reading of virtual meeting and public comment notice 
2. Discussion of use of EDA funds and resources to assist local businesses with recovery 
from damages suffered during the COVID-19 pandemic declared emergency. 
3. Other business 
4. Adjourn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Skype Instructions  
 
Accessing Skype – New Users 
 
Smartphone: If you plan to view the meeting on a smartphone, access your preferred app store 
to download the “Skype” app. You will have to allow Skype access to some features on your 
phone and accept their terms and conditions. 
 
PC/Windows: If you plan to view the meeting on a personal computer, visit www.skype.com to 
download and install the program. You will have to allow Skype access to some features on your 
computer and accept their terms and conditions. 
 
After downloading Skype:  
 Click the advertised meeting link to join the Skype meeting.  
 When the app opens, click ‘Join as Guest’ and enter your name. Click the blue arrow 
to continue. 
 The meeting will start with your microphone and video features turned off. As an 
observer, you can view or listen to the meeting without these features. If you are a 
meeting participant, you should enable at least the microphone feature. Video is not 
required but may be useful. Depending on your role in the meeting, there may be 
restrictions on whether you can speak during the meeting.  
 
