City of Oconomowoc 
Police & Fire Commission 
Tuesday, June 09, 2020 - 5:00 PM 
City Hall - Conference Room 3
Notice: If a person with a disability requires that the meeting be accessible or that materials at the 
meeting be in an accessible format, call the City Clerk’s office at least 48 hours in advance to request 
adequate accommodations. Tel: 569-2186 
1.
Call to order, roll call and confirmation of appropriate meeting notification
2.
Approve minutes from
a.
Minutes of January 28, 2020
3.
Committee Business
a.
Introduction of new Police and Fire Commission Member Mike Barry
b.
Introduction of Ex Officio Non-Voting Member Alderman Charles Schellpeper
c.
Presentation by Atty. Ron Stadler to the Police and Fire Commission, orientating the
members to their responsibilities.
d.
Closed Session Per ss19 19.85(1)(c) Considering employment, promotion, compensation
or performance evaluation data of any public employee over which the governmental body
has jurisdiction or exercises responsibility. (Evaluation of part time officer performance)
e.
Reconvene into open session
f.
Chief to recommend appointing one part time officer to the position of full-time officer
g.
Consider/act on confirmation of the Chief's recommendation
h.
Consider/act on hiring process for the position of Director of Public Safety
4.
Comments from Police & Fire Commissioners
5.
Adjourn
________________________________ 
Diane Coenen, City Clerk 
City of Oconomowoc 
Members of other city governmental bodies (boards, commissions, committees, council, etc..,) may attend the above noticed 
meeting of the Police & Fire Commission in order to gather information.  The only action to be taken at the above noticed meeting 
will be action by the Police & Fire Commission. Police & Fire Commissioners should notify the City Clerk’s Office at 569-2186 if they 
are unable to attend. 
S:\Committees - Commissions\Police & Fire Commission\Minutes\2020\pfcmin1-28-20.doc 
Police & Fire Commission Meeting Minutes – January 28, 2020 
 
Chairman Krauski called the meeting to order at 5:00 pm and the Deputy Clerk confirmed appropriate meeting notice had been 
given. 
 
Members present:  Mercier, Antonneau, Krauski, Wiemer, Schmidt and Non-Voting Council Representative Rosek 
Staff present: 
 Buerger, Pfister, Kitsembel and Wallace 
 
2.    Approve minutes from August 12, 2019 meeting:  Motion by Mercier to approve the August 12, 2019 minutes as written; 
       second by Antonneau.  Motion carried 4-1-0.  Wiemer abstained.  
 
3a. Introduction of new Police & Fire Commission member Jeff Schmidt:  Krauski introduced the new member, Jeff 
Schmidt.    
 
3b. Commission to certify three names to the chief to fill one police Officer vacancy:  Buerger stated there is currently 
one vacancy on the Police Department.  He is requesting that the Commission certify three names from the eligibility 
list.  From these three names, he will appoint one officer for consideration and confirmation of the Police and Fire 
Commission.  The three names are Rocco Bartolotta, John Gallenbeck and Adam Kurjanski.   
 
 
Motion by Wiemer that the Commission certify the following three names to Chief Ron Buerger, for the purpose of filling one 
vacancy for the position of entry level police officer for the City of Oconomowoc:  Rocco Bartolotta, John Gallenbeck and 
Adam Kurjanski; second by Schmidt.  Motion carried 5-0. 
 
3c. Chief to Appoint one officer from list of three names:  Buerger requested the appointment of Rocco Bartolotta to the 
position of entrance level police officers for the City of Oconomowoc Police Department.  
 
 
Rocco Bartolotta is married with 2 children.  He is a graduate from Kettle Moraine High School and has lived in the area the 
majority of his life.  He graduated from Waukesha County Technical College with an Associate Degree in Criminal 
Justice/Police Science.  He has been employed by the Waukesha County Sheriff’s office, the City of Waukesha and Merton 
boat patrol.  He is currently employed by Jefferson Police Department since 2016.  He is a Field training officer.  He is on 
the crisis intervention team and he is a vehicle contact instructor.  In 2018 he received the Jefferson County Crisis 
Intervention Officer of the Year Award.   
 
 
3d.  Consider/act on confirmation of Chief’s appointment:  Motion by Wiemer to confirm Chief Ron Buerger’s appointment of 
Rocco Bartolotta to the position of entry level police officer; second by Antonneau.  Motion carried 5-0.   
 
3e. Introduction of the new officers:  The members congratulated Rocco Bartolotta on his appointment.  Buerger stated 
Bartolotta starts in two weeks.   
 
3f. Chief to appoint a new detective:  Buerger requested the appointment of Kurt Franke to the position of Detective for the 
City of Oconomowoc Police Department.   
 
 
Kurt Franke has been with the department for 14 years.  He is here with his wife and family.  He has been on second shift 
for his entire career and he serves as the Lead Officer in Charge.  He is a field training officer, crisis intervention officer and 
drug identification kit instructor.  He is currently responsible for the departments OWI and drug testing equipment and 
paperwork. For the past 2 ½ years he’s been a sworn part time detective on the Waukesha County Metro Drug Unit.  He 
has had extensive training in interview interrogation, internet investigations, sexual assault investigations, death 
investigations, evidence procedures, collections and photography and fraud and child abuse investigations.  He’s also a 
certified Evidence Technician to the Wisconsin Department of Justice.  He will be assigned to 2nd shift detective.     
S:\Committees - Commissions\Police & Fire Commission\Minutes\2020\pfcmin1-28-20.doc 
 
3g.  Consider/act on the appointment of the Detective:  Motion by Wiemer to confirm Chief Ron Buerger’s appointment of 
Kurt Franke to the position of Detective effective January 30, 2020; second by Mercier.  Motion carried 5-0.  
 
3h. Introduction of the new Detective:  Kurt Franke stated he appreciates all the support.  The members congratulated him 
on his appointment. 
 
3i. Closed Session:  Motion by Wiemer to go into Closed Session, per Wis. Stats. 19.85(1)(c) Considering employment, 
promotion, compensation or performance evaluation data of any public employee over which the governmental body has 
jurisdiction or exercises responsibility regarding striking names from current eligibility list and future hiring; second by 
Schmidt.  Motion carried 5-0. Closed Session convened at 5:12 PM.   
 
3j. Reconvene into open session, per WIS. Stats. 19.85(1)(c):  Motion by Wiemer to reconvene into open session at 5:40 
PM; second by Schmidt.  Motion carried 5-0. 
 
3k. Consider/act on striking names(s) from eligibility list:  Motion by Wiemer to approve striking name(s) from eligibility list 
with the reasons given in closed session; second by Schmidt.  Motion carried 5-0. 
 
3l. Update on the new police station:  Buerger gave a powerpoint presentation on the new Public Safety Facility outlining the 
existing deficiencies and what the proposed facility provides.  The anticipated completion date is August of 2020. 
 
4. Comments from Police & Fire Commission members:  Mercier asked about Police & Fire Training.   
 
Motion by Wiemer adjourn; second by Mercier.  Motion carried 5-0.  The meeting adjourned at 6:01 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes taken by Tina Wallace, Deputy City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Don Wiemer, Secretary 
