NOTICE 
There will be an Economic Development Committee meeting on Tuesday, June 9, 2020 at 
5:30pm in the West Committee Room at the St. Francis City Civic Center located at 3400 E. 
Howard Avenue. 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE AGENDA 
1. 
Call to Order 
2. 
Election of Chair 
3. 
Minutes of the meeting held February11 and March 10, 2020 
4. 
Discussion and Possible Action Items 
 
A. Duties and Responsibilities 
 
B. Ethics Statement 
 
C. Business Recognition Event 
5. 
Correspondence 
6. 
Adjourn. 
Upon reasonable notice, a good faith effort will be made to accommodate the needs of 
individuals to participate in public meetings, who have a qualifying disability under the 
Americans with Disabilities Act.  Request should be made as far in advance as possible, 
preferably a minimum of 48 hours.  For additional information or to request this service, 
contact the St. Francis City Clerk at 481-2300.  The meeting room is wheelchair accessible 
from the East and West entrances. 
Note:  There is the potential that a quorum of the Common Council and/or any other 
Committee, Commission or Board may be present. 
CITY OF ST. FRANCIS
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
COMMITTEE
June 9, 2020
5:30PM
MINUTES FOR THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING HELD FEBRUARY 11, 2020, 5:30PM
Members present:  Chairman Brian McManus, , Rick Wier, Sandy Jaskulski, Caryle Babcock, Greg 
Schlecht, Jay Iverson, City Administrator Mark Johnsrud , and City Engineer/Di rector of Public Works 
Melinda Dejewski
Excused: Mayor Ken Tutaj, Vice Chair Bryan Kamm, Tom Bilot, Charles Buechel, , Tom Dillon.
Also present:  Alderwoman Janis Schandel, Rick Grubanowitch.
1. Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 5:30 PM by Chairman McManus.
2. Minutes
A motion was made by Committee Member Wier, seconded by Mayor Tutaj to approve the minutes. 
Motion carried.
3. Discussion and Possible Action Items
A.KK Corners Update (referred from January meeting)
City Administrator Johnsrud provided an update on the KK Corners Catalytic District development status.  
He stated that there has not been a lot of interest since St. Francis Brewery went out of business.  The St. 
Francis Animal Hospital had made contact in December but has not submitted any revisions.  Chairman 
McManus inquired on what the EDC should do to assist in the development of this area.  City 
Administrator Johnsrud stated that once the development along the lakefront is complete, approximately 
500 more people will be added to the city which will support development in the area.  There was general 
discussion on possible marketing strategies of the area.  No action was taken on this item.
B. 2020 EDC Plan/Goals (referred from January meeting)
Chairman McManus wants the committee to set 2 or 3 goals for 2020.  City Engineer Dejewski is to bring 
the costs for the 2019 Business of the Year Dinner to the next meeting.  There was general discussion on 
the dinner and if it should be continued in the future.  It was suggested tha
t different events for local 
businesses and residents could be run by the EDC.  The Civic Association hosts events for the businesses 
and residents currently. He Committee may want to refer the action for further discussion at the February 
meeting.  The mo tion was withdrawn and the item referred to the February meeting.  
This item was 
referred to the March meeting.
4.  Correspondence
None.
5.  Adjourn
A motion was made by City Engineer Dejewski, seconded by mayor Tutaj to adjourn. Meeting adjourned 
at 6:04 PM.
MINUTES FOR THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE 
MEETING HELD MARCH 10, 2020, 5:30PM 
Members present:  Chairman Brian McManus, Vice Chair Bryan Kamm, Rick Wier, Sandy Jaskulski, Caryle 
Babcock, Greg Schlecht, Charles Buechel, Mayor Ken Tutaj, City Administrator Mark Johnsrud, and City 
Engineer/Director of Public Works Melinda Dejewski 
Excused:  Tom Bilot, Tom Dillon. 
Also present:  Alderwoman Janis Schandel. 
1. Call to Order 
The meeting was called to order at 5:30 PM by Chairman McManus. 
2. Minutes 
No motions was able to be considered due to the incorrect minutes being included in the packet. 
3. Discussion and Possible Action Items 
A. Development Update 
City Administrator Johnsrud provided an update on the following developments:  Bear, Campbell, 42 Ales House, 
St. Francis Brewery, Former Stark Property, St. Francis Animal Hospital, Faklanda Brewing, City land adjacent to 
Wixon, Layton Avenue corridor and the Triangle owned by Mandel.  There was general discussion on the status of 
each development. 
No action was taken on this item. 
B. 2020 EDC Plan/Goals (referred from February meeting) 
There was discussion on what goals the committee was setting for 2020.  Ideas included :  marketing for  the KK 
Corners, integrate into businesses, celebration dinner.  There was discussion on what a business recognition event 
could become and how to do it different from past events to attract more attendance.   
There was discussion on a marketing plan for the KK Corners.  Items discussed were: when to market the area, how 
to market the area, and if the City was working on a Citywide marketing plan that a marketing plan for KK Corners 
could be incorporated into.  
The consensus from the discussions was there were 2 goals for 2020.  The first was to talk with the real estate firm 
Dickman who is currently marketing the properties in the KK Corners Catalytic District.  Second is to have a 
marketing plan in spring of 2021 with a possible kickoff in October of 2020.  There also was a consensus to not 
have a business recognition event for one year to provide time to create a new event. 
No action was taken on this item. 
C. Committee Openings/Terms 
Mayor Tutaj stated that all positions were expiring.  The Mayor explained that it was his responsibility to 
recommend people to appoint to the Common Council who then confirms the appointments.  He also stated that 
there were 3 vacancies on the cmmittee.  There was general discussion on different people for the Mayor to reach 
out to for the committee. 
4.  Correspondence 
None. 
5.  Adjourn 
A motion was made by City Engineer Dejewski, seconded by Committee Member Buechel to adjourn. Meeting 
adjourned at 6:48 PM. 
MINUTES OF THE COMMON COUNCIL MEETING HELD APRIL 21, 2020
STATE OF WISCONSIN 
CITY OF ST. FRANCIS 
MILWAUKEE COUNTY 
ORDINANCE NO. 1460 
AN ORDINANCE TO REPEAL AND RECREATE SECTION 17-14, ENTITLED 
"ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE”, OF THE  
CITY OF ST. FRANCIS CODE OF ORDINANCES
WHEREAS, Chapter 17 of the City of St. Francis Code of Ordinances, establishes certain 
Boards, Commissions, and Committees pertaining to the City of St. Francis; and 
 
WHEREAS, § 17-14 of the City of St. Francis Code of Ordinances establishes an 
Economic Development Committee; and 
WHEREAS, the Mayor and Staff have recommended revision of § 17-14 of the Code of 
Ordinances to more correctly describe the functions and duties of the Economic Development 
Committee; and 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Common Council of the City of St. Francis, Wisconsin do 
ordain as follows: 
SECTION 1.  Chapter 17, entitled “Boards, Commissions, and Committees”, Section 17-
14, entitled “Economic Development Committee”, is hereby repealed and recreated to read as 
follows:
§ 17-14. Economic Development Committee. 
A. How constituted. The Mayor, City Engineer, , and City Administrator are 
members of the Committee by virtue of their office. The Mayor shall appoint 
6 citizen members who are either citizens or representatives of businesses 
located within the City .  Appointments of residents and business 
representatives shall be for staggered two-year terms.  Where needed to 
maintain staggered terms, appointment(s) shall be made for a one-year term.     
B. Powers and duties. 
(1) To study and make recommendation on all items referred to it by the 
Common Council. 
(2) To provide a forum for exchange of information between the City and 
the business community of the City to keep all parties informed.  
(3) Propose and make nominations concerning award(s) that will promote 
awareness of the City’s business community and arrange for 
appropriate public function(s) to recognize and promote business 
within the City. 
SECTION 2: SEVERABILITY. 
 
The several sections of this ordinance are declared to be severable.  If any section or 
portion thereof shall be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, unlawful or 
unenforceable, such decision shall apply only to the specific section or portion thereof directly 
MINUTES OF THE COMMON COUNCIL MEETING HELD APRIL 21, 2020
specified in the decision, and shall not affect the validity of any other provisions, sections or 
portions thereof of the ordinance.  The remainder of the ordinance shall remain in full force and 
effect.  Any other ordinances whose terms are in conflict with the provisions of this ordinance 
are hereby repealed as to those terms that conflict. 
SECTION 3: EFFECTIVE DATE. 
This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon passage and publication as provided by 
law. 
Passed and adopted at a regular meeting of the Common Council of the City of St. Francis 
this 21st day of April 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF ST. FRANCIS 
BY: /s/Ken Tutaj__________________________
 
 
 
 
 
 
       Ken Tutaj, Mayor 
ATTEST: /s/Anne B. Uecker, MMC/WCPC
                Anne B. Uecker, City Clerk/Treasurer 
