 
HUMBOLDT COUNTY HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION  
Human Trafficking Fund Standing Committee  
ZOOM VIDEO CONFERENCE 
Committee Meeting Agenda  
 
June 9, 2020                                                                                             2:30 pm to 3:30 pm 
 
 
Public Comments: Information items (10 minutes) 
 
During this period of social distancing, the public is invited to communicate about matters 
not on the agenda, by way of email comment at:  
humboldt.humanrights@gmail.com. 
Individuals wishing to participate in the meeting electronically (ZOOM) may use the 
following link: 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85324037874 
The meeting, pursuant to the Brown Act, the commission may not act on an item that does 
not appear on the agenda. The public will be allowed to address agenda items by email at 
humboldt.humanrights@gmail.com with submissions received at the conclusion of general 
commission discussion.  
 
Committee Updates, Old and New Business: 
Discussion Item: Possible Action Items 
a. Review the proposed AD from E.P.I, and contract from Ads in Motion.  
 
If you are a person with a disability and need disability-related modifications or 
accommodation to participate in a meeting, please contact the HRC at 707-268-2548. 
Requests for such modification or accommodation must be made at least two full business 
days before the start of the meeting. As officials appointed by a legislative body (Humboldt 
County Board of Supervisors) members of the Humboldt County Human Rights 
Commission (HCHRC) have an obligation to understand, follow and abide by the Ralph M. 
Brown Act (Brown Act) and to ensure that everything the HCHRC does is open and 
available to the public for review. It is important for the HCHRC and all commissioners to 
follow the intent of the law as well as any legal rulings. To that end, the HCHRC has 
adopted guidelines for the use of any technology, especially email. The entire email policy is 
contained in the HCHRC handbook, the contents of which are available upon request. 
 
Adjournment: 
 
 
