SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY MULTI-SPECIES HABITAT CONSERVATION AND OPEN SPACE PLAN 
HABITAT TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING &  
HTAC FINANCIAL SUB-COMMITTEE MEETING  
 
San Joaquin Council of Governments 
Regional Center Building 
555 E. Weber Avenue 
Stockton, CA 95202 
 
For Both HTAC and HTAC Financial Subcommittee Meetings: 
 
Zoom Meeting ID: https://sjcog.zoom.us/j/99135257363 
 
Teleconference Number: +1 669 900 6833 US /Meeting ID: 991 3525 7363  
 
Attention Callers: Please mute the call unless speaking 
 
NOTICE - Coronavirus COVID-19 
 
In accordance with Governor Newsom’s Executive Order N-33-20, SJCOG, Inc. and staff will be participating in this meeting via teleconference.  
In the interest of maintaining appropriate social distancing, members of the public may participate in the meeting electronically and shall 
have the right to observe and offer public comment at the appropriate time during this special meeting. 
 
We have also provided a call-in number, identified on this Agenda, and encourage you to attend by telephone if Zoom is unavailable to you. 
 
Wednesday, June 10, 2020 
9:30 A.M. 
AGENDA  
 
1. Call to Order / Introductions 
2. Minutes: Approve Minutes of May 2020 meetings 
Action 
3. Public Comments 
 
All technical items are available for action by the committee.  The right column is recommendations by staff. 
4. Consent Calendar: 
a. 
NorCal Logistics, Sanchez Property, Second Project Request - Buffer Reduction 
5. Public Hearing for the Clements Torlai Benavides Hwy 12 Property Preserve Acquisition 
 
  Action 
6. Other Matters of Business: 
Information/Discussion 
a. 
HTAC Financial Subcommittee  
7. Summary and Adjournment of HTAC Meeting 
 
HTAC FINANCIAL SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING 
To be held approximately5 minutes after adjournment of HTAC 
1. Call to Order / Introductions 
2. Public Comments 
3. 2020 SJMSCP Fee Analysis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion/Action 
a. Formula A+B+C Approval 
i. Categories B and C Update 
ii. Category A Criteria 
4. Summary and Adjournment  
 
 
The SJCOG, Inc. is in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. # 12132) and the Ralph Brown Act (California Government 
Code # 54954.2) and will make all reasonable accommodations for the disabled to participate in employment, programs and facilities. Person requiring 
assistance or auxiliary aid in order to participate or persons wishing to store their bicycle safely during the meeting should contact Rebecca Calija at 235-
0600 at least 24 hours prior to the meeting. Board Meetings, Committee Meetings and all Workshops are audio/video recorded by The San Joaquin Council 
of Governments. 
 
San Joaquin Multi-Species Habitat Conservation and Open Space Plan 
Habitat Technical Advisory Committee 
San Joaquin Council of Governments 
Due to the COVID-19 Pandemic, the May 2020 HTAC Meeting was held via Zoom 
Conference Calling Capabilities 
Wednesday, May 13, 2020 
 
MINUTES 
 
I. 
Call to Order/Introductions: 
 
Ms. Aguirre call the meeting to order at 9:30 am introductions were made. 
 
Committee Members Present or Conference Call: 
Megan Aguirre 
 
 
 
San Joaquin County 
Rick Caguiat 
 
 
 
City of Lathrop 
Ken Zuidervaart  
 
 
City of Ripon 
John Beckman 
 
 
 
BIA 
Amy Kennedy 
 
 
 
CDFW 
Maggie Sepulveda 
 
 
 
USFWS 
Michelle Leinfelder-Miles 
 
UCCE 
Robert Peltier 
 
 
 
SJ Ag Commission 
Dan Gifford 
 
 
 
Conservation 
James Jones 
 
 
 
EBMUD 
 
Others Present: 
Ian Ralston 
 
 
 
CDFW 
Billie Wilson 
 
 
 
CDFW 
Diane Moore 
 
 
 
Moore Biological 
Jeff Smith  
 
 
 
NorCal Logistics, CT Realty 
 
SJCOG Staff/Consultants Present: 
Steven Mayo 
 
 
 
Program Manager 
Laurel Boyd 
 
 
 
Associate Habitat Planner 
Rod Attebery 
 
 
 
Neumiller & Beardslee 
Doug Leslie 
 
 
 
ICF 
 
 
 
 
II. 
Approval of March 11, 2020 Minutes: 
It was moved/seconded (Beckman/Sepulveda) to approve the March 11, 2020 
minutes.  James Jones, EBMUD abstained.  Motion passed 10/0. 
 
III. 
Public Comment: 
None. 
 
IV. 
Consent Calendar: 
a. NorCal Logistics Project, Sanchez Property, Plan Participation and Buffer 
Reduction 
 
Mr. Mayo stated staff spoke with the project right before the meeting.  The project 
will be doing more work in Weber Slough than originally requested in the staff 
report.  It will be up to the HTAC to decide if the project should be brought back 
to HTAC for approval once the project figures out the hydraulic needs for the 
channel work. 
 
Ms. Moore stated the project will be requesting three additional areas of Weber 
Slough to have a zero-foot buffer for the widening of Weber Slough and 
installation of culverts, in addition to removing a farm road crossing the channel 
and installing a clear span temporary bridge for hauling soil.  This work will be 
done to meet the hydrology model. 
 
Ms. Kennedy stated she would like the project to be brought back to HTAC for 
approval after the project figures out the hydrology model.  Ms. Kennedy asked if 
Weber Slough has species such as fish and giant garter snake. 
 
Ms. Moore stated all water ways under the HCP have a potential for giant garter 
snake but the slough itself barely has a watershed.  Mr. Mayo stated the project’s 
ITMMs will cover giant garter snake measures. 
 
Ms. Sepulveda stated she would like to see the hydrology model for the project to 
come back to HTAC for approval. 
 
Ms. Kennedy stated she will be leaving her current position at CDFW and Ian 
Ralston will be taking over the SJMSCP at CDFW. 
 
It was moved/seconded (Sepulveda/Beckman) to approve the consent calendar.  
Michelle Leinfelder – Miles abstained.  Motion passed 10/0. 
 
V. 
Patricia Kibbe Alder Preserve Purchase and Preserve Management Plan 
Mr. Mayo stated the Patricia Kibbe Alder property consists of 103 acres.  The 
landowner and SJCOG, Inc. contemplate an easement purchase of approximately 100 
acres.  The property is located between Paradise Cut/Old River on the north and I-205 
to the south just north of the City of Tracy in the Central Zone. 
 
Mr. May continued to state with the easement purchase, SJCOG, Inc. staff has written 
a draft Preserve Management Plan (PMP) to reflect the existing Preserve 
Management Plans for row and field crop preserves in the Central Zone for 
management economies of scale for species under the SJMSCP. 
 
Mr. Mayo stated SJCOG, Inc. will be provided with an overall easement of 
approximately 100 acres of row and field crop habitat.  The total acquisition cost is 
approximately $700,000.  SJCOG, Inc. will provide an endowment to be set aside in a 
specific endowment fund for the preserve in the amount of approximately $467,822.  
These funds will be used for land management and enhancements as required under 
the SJMSCP permits. 
 
It was moved/seconded (Beckman/Gifford) to Approve Recommendation to SJCOG, 
Inc. Board to 1) Approve the Conservation Easement Purchase; and 2) Approve the 
Preserve Management Plan (PMP) for the Preserve Site. 
 
VI. 
Bohlender Kennefick Preserve Purchase and Preserve Management Plan 
Mr. Mayo stated the Bohlender Kennefick property consists of approximately 50 
acres.  The landowner and SJCOG, Inc. staff have been discussing an easement 
purchase of approximately 35 acres as agricultural habitat.  The location of the 
property is on the east side of Kennefick Road bordered by Dry Creek to the north 
and Liberty Road to the south in the Central Zone.   
 
Mr. Mayo continued to state with the easement purchase, SJCOG, Inc. staff has 
written a draft Preserve Management Plan (PMP) to be consistent with the existing 
PMP’s of the agricultural habitat in the Central Zone for management economies of 
scale for species under the SJMSCP.   
 
Mr. Mayo stated the preserve is currently dry pasture/agriculture and in the future 
may put in a commercial hemp crop which is an allowable crop under SJCOG, Inc. 
preserve uses. 
 
Mr. Mayo continued to state SJCOG, Inc. will be provided an overall easement on 
approximately 35 acres of row and field crop habitat.  The total acquisition cost is 
approximately $262,500.  SJCOG, Inc. will be provided an endowment to be set aside 
in a specific endowment fund for the preserve in the amount of approximately 
$163,737.70.  These funds will be used for land management and enhancements as 
required under the SJMSCP permits. 
 
It was moved/seconded (Beckman/Zuidervaart) to Approve Recommendation to 
SJCOG, Inc. Board to 1) Approve the Conservation Easement Purchase; and 2) 
Approve the Preserve Management Plan (PMP) for the Preserve Site. 
 
VII. 
Hewette Bruella Preserve Purchase and Preserve Management Plan 
Mr. Mayo stated the Hewette Bruella property consists of 36 acres.  The landowner 
and SJCOG, Inc. staff have been discussing an easement purchase of approximately 
23 acres of agricultural habitat.  The location of the property is on the west side of 
Bruella Road bordered by Liberty Road to the south in the Central Zone. 
 
Mr. May continued to state with the easement purchase, SJCOG, Inc staff has written 
a draft Preserve Management Plan to be consistent with the existing PMPs of the 
agricultural habitat in the Central Zone for management economies of scale for 
species under the SJMSCP. 
 
Mr. Mayo stated SJCOG, Inc. will be provided an overall easement on approximately 
23 acres of agricultural habitat.  The total acquisition cost is approximately $172,500.  
SJCOG, Inc. will be provided an endowment to be set aside in a specific endowment 
fund for the preserve in the amount of approximately $107,599.06.  These funds will 
be used for land management and enhancements as required under the SJMSCP 
permits. 
 
Mr. Gifford asked where the 23 acres is located on the property.  Mr. Mayo stated the 
23 acres are to the south of the horse facility.  The northern portion of the property is 
disked but might not be worth seeking an easement. 
 
It was moved/seconded (Beckman/Caguiat) to Approve Recommendation to 
SJCOG, Inc. Board to 1) Approve the Conservation Easement Purchase; and 2) 
Approve the Preserve Management Plan (PMP) for the Preserve Site. 
 
VIII. Other Matters of Business 
a. HTAC Financial Subcommittee 
Mr. Mayo stated the first Financial Subcommittee meeting was in March and 
today’s meeting will go into more detail with HEG.  The Subcommittee will 
evaluate the current model and fix or adjust where needed to establish a new 
model.  Since COVID-19 hit, staff lost a month of going through the model 
adjustments.  If staff doesn’t make the deadlines in time, plan B will be to use the 
current model to establish the 2021 fees and continuously work through the new 
model for use in 2022. 
 
b. Quarterly Reporting 
Mr. Mayo stated the 1st quarter of the quarterly reports are finished and soon, 
SJCOG, Inc. staff will be requesting the 2nd quarterly reports.  Please get the 
reporting into staff ASAP. 
 
This item was for information only, no action was taken. 
 
IX. 
Summary and Adjournment:  At 10:06 am the meeting was adjourned until 
Wednesday, June 10, 2020. 
June 2020 
HTAC 
 
STAFF REPORT  
 
SUBJECT: 
 
NorCal Logistics, Sanchez Property, Second 
Project Request - Buffer Reduction 
 
 
RECOMMENDED ACTION: 
Motion to Approve Recommendation to 
SJCOG, Inc. to Allow the NorCal Logistics, 
Sanchez Property Project a Revision to the 
Incidental Take Minimization Measures for 
Giant Garter Snake (GGS) and Western 
Pond Turtle (WPT) Buffers 
DISCUSSION: 
 
SUMMARY: 
 
The project applicant, NorCal Logistics, was covered under the 
San Joaquin Multi-Species Habitat Conservation and Open Space 
Plan (SJMSCP) through action in May 2020.  As discussed at the 
HTAC with permitting agencies, the project would require work 
within the drainage and creek areas for flood and flow improvements. 
The project is coming forward for the reduction to the buffers with 
more details on the project needs in conjunction with permits under United States Army Corps of 
Engineers (USACE) Clean Water Act, Section 401/404 permit. The project site is located on the 
north side of Arch Road and to the west of Austin road, in the City of Stockton in the Central Zone 
(attachments 1 &2). 
 
RECOMMENDATION:   
 
SJCOG, Inc. staff recommends the HTAC make the recommendation to the SJCOG, Inc. Board 
to allow a revision to the Incidental Take Minimization Measures for Giant Garter Snake (GGS) 
and Western Pond Turtle (WPT). 
 
FISCAL IMPACT:   
 
The impacts are already included in the coverage provided from action in May 2020 for this 
project consisting of 149.0 acres of Agricultural (C34) habitat impacts. 
 
BACKGROUND: 
 
This project’s coverage includes construction of four industrial buildings totaling approximately 
2,800,000 square feet.  These industrial buildings would include warehouse, office and 
distribution uses consistent with the zoning code and surrounding existing uses.  The project 
anticipates onsite improvements to include approximately 2,900 automobile and trailer parking 
stalls, pedestrian walkways, lighting, landscaping and a storm drainage detention basin.  Another 
7.32 acres is within a drainage corridor occupied by Weber Slough; no development would occur 
within this drainage corridor (attachment 3). 
 
For the proponents to construct the NorCal Logistics, Sanchez Property 
Project, the project will impact potential Giant Garter Snake (GGS) habitat 
within the suggested 200-foot buffer and Western Pond Turtle (WPT) 
within the 300-foot buffer.  As identified in Section 5.59 of the Plan, 
HTAC, on a case by case review, can establish a setback and buffer zone 
to be used by the project in place of the 200 and 300 feet suggested. 
 
Since the May HTAC, the project proponent team has been working 
diligently to finalize improvement plans along Weber Slough, including 
modeling done by a hydrologist. As it turns out, the entire "north-south" 
section of Weber Slough (parallel to Austin Road) will need to be widened 
to install the two culverts that were approved during the May HTAC and 
restore channel capacity along this section of Weber Slough.  This is 
approximately 525 feet of slough that will be widened about 12 feet where 
the two culverts will be installed, as noted in attachment 3 of the updated 
plan set.  Please note this plan set just shows the south "half" of the 
Sanchez site.  No widening will be needed along the "east-west" section of 
Weber Slough. The first supplemental buffer request is the slough widening.   
 
The other item being requested by the project is to request a buffer reduction t for the removal of 
a tiny farm road crossing in the middle of the east-west" section of Weber Slough. It is also 
depicted in the updated site plan in attachment 3.  Minor excavation will be done to remove a 
small culvert and the fill in the channel.  This tiny farm road crossing is so narrow and 
deteriorating, there is no way for vehicles to cross safely.  In this same general location, there are 
also plans to install a "clear-span" temporary bridge (rail cars placed on abutments set back 10+/- 
feet from top of bank) for hauling soil.  While the "clear-span" temporary bridge does not trigger 
permits (no modification to the bed or bank thus not requiring a CDFW SAA1602 permit and no 
placement of "fill" requiring an ACOE 404 permit), a buffer reduction will be needed for this 
crossing too. The bridge will be removed following grading. 
 
The reduction of these buffers is necessary for the construction of this project.  All other ITMM 
measures for GGS (e.g. construction window between May and October and required survey 
work) and WPT will remain standard.  Reducing the buffer for GGS and WPT will allow the 
project to construct up to 0’ feet of the banks of the Weber Slough during the species’ active 
period.  However, the project will be required to meet all other ITMM measures for GGS and 
WPT, such as biological surveying efforts, constructing within the standard May 1 to October 1 
active period and mitigating for project impacts. 
 
The SJMSCP GIS habitat layer classifies the project site as Agricultural (C34) Habitat. 
 
The total disturbed area will consist of 149.0 acres of Agricultural (C34) impacts.  The project 
applicant will be responsible for mitigating for the 149.0 acres of Agricultural (C34) habitat 
impacts that is consumed by this project by either paying the appropriate fees at the time of 
ground disturbance or dedicating land in lieu of a fee at the appropriate SJMCP ratio.   
 
Adjacent Vegetation and Land Use 
Location 
SJMSCP Vegetation Map 
Classification 
Habitat Type Category 
Actual Use Of 
Property 
Site 
Agriculture (C34) 
Agriculture (C34) 
Agriculture (C34) 
North 
Agriculture (C34) 
Agriculture (C34) 
Agriculture (C34) 
South 
Urban (U) 
Urban (U) 
Urban (U) 
East 
Agriculture (C34) 
Agriculture (C34) 
Agriculture (C34) 
West 
Agriculture (C34) 
Agriculture (C34) 
Agriculture (C34) 
 
 
COMMITTEE ACTIONS: 
 
• Habitat Technical Advisory Committee:  Action Required 
• SJCOG, Inc. Board: June 25th if Recommended 
 
ATTACHMENTS:  
 
1. General Location Map  
2. Project Location Map 
3. Project Site Map 
 
 
Prepared by:  Laurel Boyd, Associate Habitat Planner 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT 1 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT 2 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6/2020 
HTAC 
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
 
SUBJECT: 
Public Hearing for the Clements 
Torlai/Benavides Hwy 12 Properties 
Easement Acquisition  
 
RECOMMENDED ACTION: 
Motion to: (1) Open a Public Hearing for 
Comments on the Preserve and (2) Close 
the Public Hearing after Receiving 
Comments 
 
DISCUSSION: 
 
For preserve acquisition and dedication, the SJMSCP requires notices and hearing procedures to 
be followed: 
 
1. A 30-day public comment period for Jurisdictional Review prior JPA 
action which commenced May 2020; 
2. Public hearings at the HTAC noticed 30 days before recommendation 
to JPA; and a 
3. Public hearing at the JPA prior to a decision. 
 
Notice was given on the following property: (see Attachment 1 Map) 
 
1. Those certain properties described as 20530 State Route 12 and 22659 N. Johnson Rd., Clements, CA (APNs: 
023-030-45 and 023-100-31) 
2. 
Vendor:  Gino Torlai and Eugenio Benavides  
3. Price: Not to exceed $7,000 per acre  
 
The Clements Torlai/Benavides Hwy 12 Properties are a total of 162.03 +/- acres. SJCOG, Inc. 
has interest in an easement on a portion of the properties of approximately 80 +/- acres. The 
location of the property is in the Central Zone northeast of the town of Clements at the Hwy 
12/Hwy 88 split.  
 
The property consists of irrigated pasture which serves as foraging habitat for several SJMSCP 
covered species. The potential preserve is near other protected lands (e.g. EBMUD – Camanche 
Reservoir watershed and Fitzgerald Mitigation Bank).  If acquired and dedicated, SJCOG, Inc. 
staff intends to create the Preserve Management Plan (PMP) to reflect grassland and irrigated 
pasture for species under the SJMSCP in the area. 
 
Prepared by Steven Mayo, Program Manager 
ATTACHMENT 1 
 
 
 
