HEALTH CARE COMMITTEE 
COUNTY BOARDROOM 
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 10, 2020 
3:00 PM 
AGENDA 
 
1. 
Call to Order. 
 
2. 
Roll Call. Melissa Andrews (ch), Dustin Schulz (vc), Doug Mullen, Janet Gibbs, Lisa Jording, 
Derek Reinmann, Matt Noar, Kent Hair, J.T. Gentes, Emily Barker, Chuck Nagel, and John Krug.  
 
3. 
Approval of Minutes 
 
a. Approval of March 11, 2020 Minutes 
 
4. 
Public Input 
 
5. 
Report of Fund Balances 
 
6. 
Appointments 
 
a. Appointment of Cayla Comens (representing FOP Probation) to the Health Care Committee as 
alternate for a three year term expiring the 1st Monday in December, 2022. 
 
7. 
Old Business 
 
8. 
New Business 
 
a. Discussion and possible recommendation of the STOP Tobacco Cessation Program offered by 
TRIA Health ($300 per engaged member per year for Track 1) 
 
b. Discussion and possible recommendation of the Choose to Lose Weight Loss Program offered 
by TRIA Health (a one-time fee of $325 per engaged member per year and a monthly fee of 
$35 per engaged member) 
 
c. Discussion and recommendation of allowing claims for consultations by telephone, email, or 
online physicians retroactive to March 21, 2020 for a period to be determined (such as 90 or 
120 days or until the end of Plan Year 2020 or permanently). 
 
d. Discussion and consideration of amending the plan to allow broader coverage for hearing-
related services and supplies effective Plan Year 2021. 
 
9. 
Other 
 
a. County Board Action Follow-up (Monthly item) 
 
There were no items forwarded to the County Board in March 2020 and no meetings in April 
or May. 
 
b. Monthly Update/Quarterly Report from Snedeker’s 
 
10. Executive Session (if necessary) 
 
11. Any Action Coming Out of Executive Session 
 
12. Announce Next Meeting Date 
 
a. Next meeting will be July 15, 2020 
 
13. Adjournment 
HEALTH CARE COMMITTEE 
COUNTY BOARDROOM 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2020 
3:00 PM 
MINUTES 
 
1. 
Call to Order. – Called to order at 3:00. 
 
2. 
Roll Call. Melissa Andrews (ch), Dustin Schulz (vc), Doug Mullen, Lisa Jording, Derek Reinmann, 
J. T. Gentes, Chuck Nagel, and John Krug were all present.  Janet Gibbs, Matt Noar, Kent Hair, 
and Emily Barker were excused.  County Clerk Dawn Kupfer was also in attendance.  
 
3. 
Approval of Minutes 
 
a. Approval of February 11, 2020 Minutes 
 
Motion to approve the February 11, 2020 minutes as submitted made by Chuck Nagel, seconded by 
Derek Reinmann. Motion to approve as submitted carried. 
 
4. 
Public Input - None 
 
5. 
Report of Fund Balances 
 
 
Premium & Claims Reserve Fund: 
$ 737,784.03 
 
Health Care Plan Fund: 
$   42,638.12 
 
Total of Fund: 
$ 780,422.15 
 
6. 
Appointments 
 
a. Discussion of the appointment of alternates for the FOP, AFSCME, and Health Department 
Positions. 
 
The Highway Department does not have anyone for an alternate at this time.  Dustin Schulz with 
the Health Department will email the name of their alternate to me so we can vote on the 
appointment at the next Health Care Committee meeting and then forward to the full Board.  The 
Probation Department currently does not have anyone willing to be an alternate but may have in 
the near future.  The FOP will be discussing alternates at their next meeting and may forward 
names to me at a later date. 
 
7. 
Old Business - None 
 
8. 
New Business 
 
a. Review of TRIA Health Annual Report 
 
A paper copy of the TRIA Annual Report was provided to us and we called the TRIA Health 
Account Manager Rachel Smith and put her on speaker phone.  She shared a patient success story 
with us and then explained the information in the rest of the report.  The total amount invested 
last year was $3,446 ($2 per participant per month) and the total annualized savings was $12,593.  
The number of engaged members increased to 13.  The fee that the County pays for participation 
in TRIA Health is covered by the plan, we do not charge the employees a separate premium for 
this.  Rachel will get payroll stuffers, new hire fliers, and posters for our bulletin boards to us.  
TRIA offers other programs such as Choose to Lose (a multi-prong approach for long term 
weight loss) and S.T.O.P. (Stop Tobacco by Optimizing Pharmacists).  They have had high success 
rates with these two programs.  After the phone conference call, the committee discussed these 
two programs and Melissa will contact Rachel to get pricing so we can discuss offering these 
HEALTH CARE COMMITTEE 
COUNTY BOARDROOM 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2020 
3:00 PM 
MINUTES 
 
programs to our plan participants at our next meeting.  The Health Department has information 
on smoking cessation programs but the TRIA S.T.O.P. program would be more in depth.   
 
9. 
Other 
 
a. County Board Action Follow-up (Monthly item) 
 
Two appointments (Kent Hair and J.T. Gentes) were forwarded to the full County Board and were 
approved in February.  Also, the recommendation for the approval of injectable drug claims to be 
processed thru the prescription side of the plan was forwarded and approved by the County Board 
in February 2020. 
 
b. Monthly Update/Quarterly Report from Snedeker’s 
 
Snedeker’s office provided the 2020 Plan Performance Report thru February 29, 2020.  There is a 
net loss of $10,901.28 thru the first two months of the plan year.  
 
c. There was discussion regarding the Coronavirus.   
 
Mr. Nagel works for a school district and there is a 50/50 chance they will have school closings.  
Mr. Gentes reported that the Sheriff’s office has plans and procedures in place.  Mr. Schulz 
reported that this issue is taking up 95% of his time right now.  He has been working with the 
EMA Director Kent McCanless and County Board Chairman Mr. Krug.  Woodford County 
currently does not have any cases of Coronavirus yet but it is probably just a matter of time.  Mr. 
Nagel has questions and concerns of what we will do if we have a shutdown of County 
Government.  The County Clerk has had to relocate polling places and has a shortage of election 
judges.  We may want to ask our insurance carrier if we have loss of income coverage.   
 
10. Executive Session (if necessary) - None 
 
11. Any Action Coming Out of Executive Session - None 
 
12. Announce Next Meeting Date 
 
a. Next meeting will be April 15, 2020 
 
13. Adjournment 
 
Motion to adjourn at 3:51 made by Chuck Nagel, seconded by Lisa Jording.  Motion carried. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Melissa Andrews, Chairman of the Health Care Committee 
 
 
 
