ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 
ONLINE MEETING AGENDA 
TUESDAY, JUNE 16, 2020 AT 7:00 P.M. 
 MEETING LINK: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83914069243 
MEETING ID: 839 1406 9243 
MEETING CALL-IN PHONE NUMBER: 929-205-6099 
 
Pursuant to Governor Baker’s March 12, 2020 Order Suspending Certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c.30A, 
§18, and the Governor’s March 15, 2020 Order concerning imposition on strict limitations on the number of people that may 
gather in one place, meetings in the Town of Weston will be conducted via remote participation to the greatest extent possible. 
We will strive to provide access to such meetings via a link to call in, or other similar option. In the event we are unable to 
accommodate the same, despite best efforts, we will post recorded sessions of the meeting as soon as possible following the 
same. No in-person attendance of members of the public will be permitted, but every effort will be made to ensure that the 
public can adequately access the proceedings. 
 
Winifred I. Li, Chair, Jane Fisher Carlson, Alan D. Rose, Jr, Stephen J. Larocque, Natalie Sawyer 
 and Sujit Sitole 
 
Notice is hereby given that the Board of Appeals of the Town of Weston will hold an online public 
hearing (see connection instructions below) on June 16, 2020 on the following applications at the times 
indicated: 
 
7:00 P.M. An application by MCRT Investments LLC, an affiliate of Mill Creek Residential c/o Lars 
Unhjem, 200 Summit Drive, Suite 450, Burlington, MA, 01803 as to 751 and 761 Boston Post Road (Map 
25, Lot 24, Map 26 Lot 2, Map 26 Lot 3 and Map 26 Lot 4) requesting a Comprehensive Permit under 
M.G.L. Ch. 40B for one hundred and eighty (180) rental housing units, forty five (45) of which will be 
restricted as affordable under the terms of the Comprehensive Permit Guidelines. 
 
The petition and plans on above application with said Board of Appeals are available for public inspection 
at https://www.weston.org/1359/751-761-Boston-Post-Road and in person by appointment, please email 
field.j@westonmass.org 
 
 
The video of the session will be posted on the Town’s website following the session, along with any updated 
submissions on the application between now and the continued hearing date. 
 
Remote Online Attendance and/or Call-in Participation Instructions 
• 
To use Zoom with video on a smart phone or tablet you must download the Zoom app first. After you’ve downloaded 
the app, enter the Zoom Meeting ID. 
• 
To use Zoom on a computer, you have to download an installer the first time you join a meeting, which you’ll 
automatically be asked to do. After that, you’ll join meetings automatically when you click on the meeting link. 
• 
Use the call-in number to join the meeting in audio-only mode. The call-in number is access if your computer doesn’t 
have a microphone/speaker. 
• 
You will be entered into a “waiting room” prior to joining the meeting. 
• 
If you are calling in on a phone, you will be asked to identify yourself before you can enter the meeting 
 
Instructions for Public Comment 
• 
All participants will be on mute upon entering the meeting. Please keep yourself on mute 
• 
The public is asked not to speak until the Chair asks for public questions/comments 
• 
To be recognized, click on the “Participants” button on the lower bar and activate the ‘Raise Hand’ icon. You will be 
called upon in order. 
• 
For participants calling in on a phone, you will be unmuted in the meeting but please keep your phone on mute to 
reduce background noise. Call-in participants will be asked for comment and you can unmute yourself then to speak 
up to be recognized. 
