Finance  Committee
350 Main Street
Webster, MA 01570
Laura Backus                                 
Sarah Sansom, Vice Chairman (Acting Chair)
Matt Fitton
Courtney Friedland, Recording Secretary
Michael Finamore
Jennifer Findlay
Christopher Markiewicz
Webster Finance Committee
Meeting Notice/Agenda
Wednesday, June 10, 2020
Selectman’s Meeting Room
Webster Town Hall
6:00 P.M.
Pursuant to Governor Baker’s March 12, 2020 Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A sec18, and the Governor’s March 15, 2020 Order imposing strict limitation 
on the number of people that may gather in one place, this meeting of the Webster Finance Committee 
will be conducted via remote participation to the greatest extent possible. Specific information and the 
general guidelines for remote participation by member s of the public and/or parties with a right and/or
requirement to attend this meeting can be foundation the Town’s website, at www.webster-ma.gov.
For this meeting, members of the public who wish to watch the meeting may do so via the Town’s 
YouTube channel at www.youtube.com/channel/UC1GDU6rDxJb7u7c9NnBm8qw. No in-person 
attendance of members of the public will be permitted, but every effort will be made to ensure that the 
public can adequately access the proceedings in real time, via technological means.  In the event, that 
we are unable to do so despite best efforts, we will post on the town’s website an audio or video 
recording, transcript, or other comprehensive record of proceedings as soon as possible after the 
meeting.
1.  MEETING CALL TO ORDER AT 6:00 P.M. in Selectmen’s Meeting Room
Pledge of Allegiance
Approval minutes 5/7/20
Town Administrator Report
2.  OLD BUSINESS
School Building Update
Audit Committee
Public Hearing on FY 2021 Town Budget including Water & Sewer Enterprise Funds
Public Hearing on FY 2021 School Budget
FY 21 impact of Covid-19 Review/Update
Preparation of Finance Report Review/Update
Capital Project Planning Update
Update on Schedule for Budget process
3.  NEW BUSINESS
4.  INFORMATIONAL MAIL
5.  ADJOURNMENT
Town Election June 15, 2020
Town Meeting
