  
MEETING INFORMATION 
CONTACT INFORMATION:    100 E. First Street- (336) 747-7069          EMAIL:  mailto:planning@cityofws.org 
 
 
Rules and Procedures 
 
       • Persons supporting the zoning request have up to 12 minutes total. 
       • Persons opposing the rezoning request have up to 12 minutes total. 
       • There are no rebuttals. 
       • During the work session, no one is permitted to speak unless the 
Planning Board asks them a specific question. 
       • For general use zoning requests, the Planning Board must consider 
the full range of uses allowed in the zoning district being requested.  
The petitioner may not refer to a specific intended use of the 
property. 
       • For special use district zoning requests, the petitioner must identify 
the intended use or uses of the site and give specific details on how 
the site will be developed. 
       • Most requests listed under agenda item “B” require final action by 
an elected body (the City Council for cases within the City of 
Winston-Salem zoning jurisdiction and the Board of Commissioners 
for cases within Forsyth County zoning jurisdiction).  As such, 
votes taken by the Planning Board concerning these items are 
recommendations which are considered by the elected bodies during 
their review of the requests. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This agenda is available in alternative media forms for people with disabilities. 
Individuals with disabilities who require assistance or special arrangements to 
participate in programs and activities of the Planning Department are encouraged to 
contact the Department at least 72 hours in advance so that proper accommodations 
can be arranged.  For information, call 336-747-7069 (727-8319 TTY). 
Please Turn Off All Cell Phones and 
Two-Way Communication Devices. 
AGENDA 
CITY-COUNTY PLANNING BOARD 
JUNE 11, 2020 
4:30 P.M. 
Virtual Meeting 
Citizens wishing to participate will find information on the following website: 
https://www.cityofws.org/278/Planning-Development-Services 
 
 
CALL TO ORDER 
 
 
A. 
ACTION ON MINUTES 
 
       • May 28 Virtual Public Hearing 
 
 
B. 
PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS 
 
1. 
Zoning petition of Industry Hill Properties, LLC and IH850 Trade, LLC from LI 
to E-L (Arts and Crafts Studio; Banking and Financial Services; Club or Lodge; 
Combined Use; Convenience Store; Entertainment Facility, Large; Food or Drug 
Store; Furniture and Home Furnishings Store; Hotel or Motel; Manufacturing A; 
Micro-Brewery or Micro-Distillery; Museum or Art Gallery; Offices; Police or 
Fire Station; Recreation Facility, Public; Recreation Services, Indoor; Recreation 
Services, Outdoor; Restaurant (without drive-through service); Restaurant (with 
drive-through service); Retail Store; Services, A; Shopping Center; Special 
Events Center; Storage Services, Retail; Theater, Indoor; Utilities; Veterinary 
Services; Warehousing; Wholesale Trade A; Residential Building, Multifamily; 
Residential Building, Townhouse; Residential Building, Twin Home; and 
Residential Building, Duplex): property is located on the north side of West 
Eighth Street between North Trade Street and Oak Street (Zoning Docket W-
3444). 
 
a. 
Zoning Recommendation. 
 
2. 
Zoning petition of Woodland Properties, LLC; Roberts Hall, LLC; 19 Boo 27 
Bldg, LLC; Robert and Lluvia Henneberg; Industry Hill Properties; and Industry 
Hill Properties, LLC from GB to E-L (Arts and Crafts Studio; Banking and 
Financial Services; Club or Lodge; Combined Use; Convenience Store; 
Entertainment Facility, Large; Food or Drug Store; Furniture and Home 
Furnishings Store; Hotel or Motel; Manufacturing A; Micro-Brewery or Micro-
Distillery; Motor Vehicle, Repair and Maintenance; Museum or Art Gallery; 
Offices; Police or Fire Station; Recreation Facility, Public; Recreation Services, 
Indoor; Recreation Services, Outdoor; Restaurant (without drive-through service); 
Restaurant (with drive-through service); Retail Store; Services, A; Shopping 
Center; Special Events Center; Storage Services, Retail; Theater, Indoor; Utilities; 
Veterinary Services; Warehousing; Wholesale Trade A; Residential Building, 
Multifamily; Residential Building, Townhouse; Residential Building, Twin 
Home; and Residential Building, Duplex): property is located on the north side of 
North Liberty Street, between North Patterson Avenue and North Chestnut Street 
(Zoning Docket W-3445). 
 
a. Zoning Recommendation. 
 
3. 
An ordinance amendment proposed by Planning and Development Services staff 
introducing graphics to the UDO to illustrate certain dimensional requirements. 
(UDO-CC3). 
 
 
C. 
PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPROVALS 
 
1. 
#2020056; Simon D & Denise D. Shaw (Petticoat Junction); west side of Brewer 
Road, south of Ethel Drive; 13-lot Single Family Residential; Winston-Salem; 
3.78 acres 
 
2. 
#2020057; Ronnie Parker, Sr. (Cliffdale Woods); west side of North Cliffdale 
Drive, south of Guinevere Lane; 29-lot Single Family Residential; Winston-
Salem; 14.91 acres 
 
3. 
#198019; PHR, LLC (Lochurst Phase 4, Sec.3); remove lots 1-6 from subdivision; 
Forsyth County; 3.82 acres 
 
 
D. 
STAFF REPORT 
 
 
 
E. 
FOR THE GOOD OF THE ORDER 
 
 
