City of Fremont, Nebraska, is inviting you to a Zoom webinar.  
When: June 9, 2020 07:00 PM Central Time (US and Canada) 
Topic: June 9, 2020 City Council Meeting 
ZOOM Meeting Information 
View Video Tutorials: 
   https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/201362193-How-Do-I-Join-A-Meeting- 
Please click the link below to join the webinar:  
https://zoom.us/j/99768739217
Webinar ID: 997 6873 9217 
Or iPhone one-tap : 
    US: +13462487799,,99094476640#  or +16699009128,,99094476640# 
Telephone: 
    Dial (for higher quality, dial a number based on your current location): 
        US: +1 669 900 9128 
+1 346 248 7799
+1 301 715 8592
+1 312 626 6799
+1 646 558 8656
+1 253 215 8782
    Webinar ID: 997 6873 9217
    International numbers available: https://zoom.us/u/ac3jsnwxkH 
Please note: Zoom requires a name and an email address to participate via computer, 
tablet or smartphone. Please enter your first name and enter 
attendee@fremontne.gov as your email address. 
If you participate by telephone, no identification is required. To request to make a 
comment during a public hearing or public comment period, please press *9 to 
electronically raise your hand allowing the Mayor to call on you. Once called upon 
you will be notified that you are unmuted. Press *6 to unmute your phone and 
press *6 to mute your phone when you are finished speaking, or wait to be muted by 
the host.
Please submit any documents to be received into the record 
to the City Clerk by 4:30 PM Monday June 8, 2020. 
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY & REGULAR CITY 
COUNCIL MEETING 
June 9, 2020 - 7:00 PM 
City Council Chambers 400 East Military, Fremont NE 
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION AGENDA 
7:00 PM  
MEETING CALLED TO ORDER 
ROLL CALL  
1. Consider levying a special tax and assessment against properties to pay the costs of weed
and debris removal and assessment
a.
Resolution 2020-116 to levying a special tax and assessment against Northside N46’ Lot
12 All Lot 13 & 56’ Lot 14 BLK 1 in the amount of $401.97 (Moore, Karen)
b.
Resolution 2020-117 to levying a special tax and assessment against Chases E 66’ Lot 1
Blk 32 in the amount of $227.85 (Scheil, Amy & Jordan)
c.
Resolution 2020-118 to levying a special tax and assessment against Northside Lot 16
Blk 3 in the amount of $244.92 (Refaela Delgado, Gustavo and Hernandez Garibo,
Patricia)
ADJOURNMENT 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY AGENDA 
7:00 PM 
MEETING CALLED TO ORDER 
ROLL CALL 
1. Resolution 2020-008 to approve Redevelopment Agreement for DPA Auctions
Redevelopment Project
ADJOURNMENT 
CITY COUNCIL REGULAR MEETING AGENDA 
7:00 PM – Following the preceding Meeting 
MEETING CALLED TO ORDER 
ROLL CALL 
MAYOR COMMENTS 
(There will be no discussion from the Council or the public regarding comments made by the 
Mayor. Should anyone have questions regarding the comments, please contact the Mayor after the 
meeting) 
1.
Motion to adopt current agenda for June 9, 2020 Regular Meeting
BUSINESS FROM PREVIOUS MEETING: 
2.
Resolution 2020-112 to authorize the execution of Amendment No. 1 to Reimbursement
and Indemnification Agreement with WholeStone Farms Inc.
3.
Resolution 2020-113 to approve Architectural Services Agreement with Davis Design, Inc.
for Design Services in connection with the Aircraft Terminal Building at the Fremont Airport
4.
Ordinance 5534 to revise Municipal Code Section 3-103: Municipal Water System;
application for service; meter and service requirements generally; prorating monthly water
bill (first reading)
5.
Ordinance 5535 to revise Municipal Code Section 3-231: Building sewer installation; single
premise (first reading)
CONSENT AGENDA: All items in the consent agenda are considered to be routine by the City 
Council and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items 
unless a Council Member or a citizen so requests, in which event the item will be removed from the 
consent agenda and considered separately. 
6.
Motion to approve May 27, 2020 through June 9, 2020 claims and authorize checks to be
drawn on the proper accounts
7.
Motion to receive Report of the Treasury
8.
Dispense with and approve May 26, 2020 Community Development Agency and City
Council Meeting Minutes
9.
Resolution 2020-119 to approve use of Ilgenfritz parking lot for Keep Fremont Beautiful
Metal and Electronics Recycling Event
10.
Motion to approve the recommendation of the Mayor to appoint Scott Meister as Greater
Fremont Development Council’s representative to the Local Option Review Team
11.
Resolution 2020-120 to allow the purchase of the Geo Comm Capping/AVL system and
software
12.
Resolution 2020-121 approving the request of Fremont Opera House to use the Parking
lot north of the Fremont Opera House for an Ice Cream Social
13.
Resolution 2020-122 authorizing staff to sign a lease agreement with NMC for a
Caterpillar Compact Track Loader Model 259D3
14.
Resolution 2020-123 authorizing the Mayor to sign the Industrial Track Agreement with
Union Pacific Railroad
15.
Motion to approve concrete license application, Rick Coates
NEW BUSINESS: Requires individual associated action 
16.
Resolution 2020-124 to approve Redevelopment Agreement for DPA Auctions 
Redevelopment Project
17.
Motion to approve revised subdivision agreement for Bluestem Commons
18.
Council Member Jacobus item - Discuss, consider and take possible action prior to RFP 
requests being sent for updating the City of  Fremont's Comprehensive Plan and / or UDC
19.
Council Member Jacobus Item - Discuss the  impact  to City tax receipts, TIF projects, etc 
due to a 37% increase valuation to all of Fremont's  commercial/industrial  properties, per 
2020 TERC order 
ADJOURNMENT 
Agenda posted at the Municipal Building on June 3, 2020 and online at 
www.fremontne.gov.  Agenda distributed to the Mayor and City Council on June 3, 2020. This 
meeting is preceded by publicized notice in the Fremont Tribune and the agenda, including notice 
of study session, is displayed in the Municipal Building and is open to the public. The official 
current copy is available at City Hall, 400 East Military, City Clerk’s Office.  The City Council 
reserves the right to go into Executive Session at any time.  A copy of the Open Meeting Law is 
posted in the City Council Chambers for review by the public.  The City of Fremont reserves the 
right to adjust the order of items on this agenda. 
§2-109 Audience / Participant; Rules of Conduct.
The following rules are established for audience members and participants at a Council meeting: 
1.
At the discretion of the presiding officer, any person may address the Council, on any agenda item; however, questions to
City officials or staff, other speakers, or members of the audience are not permitted and will not be answered.
2.
Any person wishing to address the Council shall first state their name and address
3.
Remarks shall be limited to five minutes unless extended or limited by the Presiding Officer or majority vote of the Council.
4.
No person will be permitted to address the Council more than once during discussion of a particular agenda item.
Rebuttal comments are not permitted.
5.
Repetitive or cumulative remarks may be limited or excluded by the Presiding Officer or majority vote of the Council.
6.
Profanity or raised voice is not permitted.
7.
Applause, booing, or other indications of support or displeasure with a speaker are not permitted.
8.
Any person violating these rules may be removed from the Council Chambers.
The following additional rules are established and applicable for public participants at an Open Public Comment Period or Study 
Session meeting: 
9.
At the direction of the presiding officer, Open Public Comment Period Speaker Topics will be limited to those not covered by a
published agenda for any Study Session, or any regular City Council meeting.
10. A priority to speak at Open Public Comment Periods and Study Session shall be given to those speakers who reside within the 
City limits, or within the ETJ (Extra-Territorial Jurisdiction – a two (2) mile radius of the City limits) of Fremont, and then, as time
allows, to those who do not.
11. Member of the public wishing to speak at a Study Session will be required to limit their comments to those that are directly 
related to the Publicly Noticed Study Session agenda topic(s). 
12. Written letters addressed to the City Council will be accepted, as will comment cards that will be made available and collected 
from those who attend Open Public Comment Period and Study Session meetings who do not wish to speak publicly, but have 
an issue or concern that they believe the Council should be made aware of. 
STAFF REPORT 
 
TO: 
 
Honorable Mayor and City Council  
FROM:  
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk 
DATE:   
June 9, 2020 
SUBJECT: 
Nuisance Liens 
 
 
Recommendation: Move to approve the Resolutions 
 
 
Background: Owners have been billed for work completed by the Street Department as 
ordered by the Building Department. The bills remain unpaid after two months. State Statute 
allows the City of file a lien against the property. Owners on record when the work was 
completed as follows:  
 
Owner 
Location 
Amount 
Moore, Karen 
Northside N46’ Lot 12 All Lot 13 & 56’ 
Lot 14 BLK 1 
$401.97 
Scheil, Amy & Jordan 
Chases E 66’ Lot 1 Blk 32 
$227.85 
Refaela Delgado, Gustavo 
and Hernandez Garibo, 
Patricia  
Northside Lot 16 Blk 3 
$244.92 
 
 
Fiscal Impact: Reimburse City expense $874.74  
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-116 
 
 
A Resolution of the City Council of the City of Fremont Nebraska, levying a special tax and 
assessment in the amount of $401.97 against Northside N46’ Lot 12 All Lot 13 & 56’ Lot 14 BLK 
1 to the City of Fremont, as surveyed, platted and recorded in Dodge County, Nebraska (owner: 
Moore, Karen) to pay the costs of weed and debris removal and assessment.  
 
 
Whereas, the Chief Building Inspector notified or attempted to notify by certified mail the 
owner and/or occupant of the property described as Northside N46’ Lot 12 All Lot 13 & 56’ Lot 14 BLK 
1 to the City of Fremont, as surveyed, platted and recorded in Dodge County, Nebraska in Dodge 
County, Nebraska, and  
 
 
Whereas, the City Council, under the direction of the Chief Building Inspector, ordered 
the nuisance removed and directed the owner and/or occupant be billed the actual cost of employee 
and equipment hours spent removing the nuisance, and  
 
 
Whereas, the cost of removing said nuisance has been properly billed and remains 
unpaid after two months from the billing date. 
 
 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:  There is hereby levied and charged against 
Northside N46’ Lot 12 All Lot 13 & 56’ Lot 14 BLK 1 to the City of Fremont, as surveyed, platted and 
recorded in Dodge County, Nebraska (owner: Moore, Karen) in Dodge County, Nebraska, a special 
assessment in the amount of $401.97 to pay the cost of nuisance removal and assessment.   
 
 
 
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 9TH DAY OF JUNE 2020.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
______________________________ 
 
 
 
SCOTT GETZSCHMAN, MAYOR 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
________________________ 
TYLER FICKEN, CITY CLERK 
 
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-117 
 
 
A Resolution of the City Council of the City of Fremont Nebraska, levying a special tax and 
assessment in the amount of $227.85 against Northside Chases E 66’ Lot 1 Blk 32 to the City of 
Fremont, as surveyed, platted and recorded in Dodge County, Nebraska (owner: Amy & Jordan 
Scheil) to pay the costs of weed and debris removal and assessment.  
 
 
Whereas, the Chief Building Inspector notified or attempted to notify by certified mail the 
owner and/or occupant of the property described as Chases E 66’ Lot 1 Blk 32 to the City of Fremont, 
as surveyed, platted and recorded in Dodge County, Nebraska in Dodge County, Nebraska, and  
 
 
Whereas, the City Council, under the direction of the Chief Building Inspector, ordered 
the nuisance removed and directed the owner and/or occupant be billed the actual cost of employee 
and equipment hours spent removing the nuisance, and  
 
 
Whereas, the cost of removing said nuisance has been properly billed and remains 
unpaid after two months from the billing date. 
 
 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:  There is hereby levied and charged against 
Chases E 66’ Lot 1 Blk 32 to the City of Fremont, as surveyed, platted and recorded in Dodge County, 
Nebraska (owner: Scheil, Amy & Jordan) in Dodge County, Nebraska, a special assessment in the 
amount of $227.85 to pay the cost of nuisance removal and assessment.   
 
 
 
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 9TH DAY OF JUNE 2020.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
______________________________ 
 
 
 
SCOTT GETZSCHMAN, MAYOR 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
________________________ 
TYLER FICKEN, CITY CLERK 
 
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-118 
 
 
A Resolution of the City Council of the City of Fremont Nebraska, levying a special tax and 
assessment in the amount of $244.92 against Northside Lot 16 Blk 3 to the City of Fremont, as 
surveyed, platted and recorded in Dodge County, Nebraska (owner: Gustavo Refaela Delgado 
and Patricia Hernandez Garibo) to pay the costs of weed and debris removal and assessment.  
 
 
Whereas, the Chief Building Inspector notified or attempted to notify by certified mail the 
owner and/or occupant of the property described as Northside Lot 16 Blk 3 to the City of Fremont, as 
surveyed, platted and recorded in Dodge County, Nebraska in Dodge County, Nebraska, and  
 
 
Whereas, the City Council, under the direction of the Chief Building Inspector, ordered 
the nuisance removed and directed the owner and/or occupant be billed the actual cost of employee 
and equipment hours spent removing the nuisance, and  
 
 
Whereas, the cost of removing said nuisance has been properly billed and remains 
unpaid after two months from the billing date. 
 
 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:  There is hereby levied and charged against 
Northside Lot 16 Blk 3 to the City of Fremont, as surveyed, platted and recorded in Dodge County, 
Nebraska (owner: Gustavo Refaela Delgado and Patricia Hernandez Garibo) in Dodge County, 
Nebraska, a special assessment in the amount of $244.92 to pay the cost of nuisance removal and 
assessment.   
 
 
 
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 9TH DAY OF JUNE 2020.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
______________________________ 
 
 
 
SCOTT GETZSCHMAN, MAYOR 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
________________________ 
TYLER FICKEN, CITY CLERK 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To: 
Community Redevelopment Agency 
 
From: 
Jennifer Dam, Planning Director 
 
Date: 
June 9, 2020 
 
Subject: 
Approval of Redevelopment Agreement with DPA Auctions 
 
Recommendation:  Approval of Resolution 2020-008  
 
Background:  
 
This matter involves the approval of a Redevelopment Agreement proposed for execution by the 
the City of Fremont (“CDA”) and Del Peterson, Inc. 
 
The CDA and the City Council of the City of Fremont approved an amendment to the 
Redevelopment Area #3 for the DPA Auction Project on May 26, 2020. 
 
The minimum project valuation is $3,150,000. The total TIF indebtedness authorized is $632,000. 
  
The agreement establishes the terms and use of TIF indebtedness. 
 
The agreement specifies the public and private improvements that will be constructed as a result of 
the project. 
 
 
Fiscal Impact: N/A 
 
 
1 
REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
 
(DPA AUCTIONS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT) 
 
 
This Redevelopment Agreement is made and entered into as of the 9th day of 
June, 2020, by and between the Community Development Agency of the City of 
Fremont, Nebraska (“CDA”) and Del Peterson and Associates, Inc., a Nebraska 
corporation (“Redeveloper”). 
RECITALS 
A. 
The CDA is a duly organized and existing community development 
agency, a body politic and corporate under the laws of the State of Nebraska, with 
lawful power and authority to enter into this Redevelopment Agreement. 
B. 
The City of Fremont (the “City”), in furtherance of the purposes and 
pursuant to the provisions of Article VIII, Section 12 of the Nebraska Constitution 
and Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-2101 to 18-2154, as amended (collectively the “Act”), has 
adopted a Redevelopment Plan for a blighted and substandard area designated by 
the City, including the Redevelopment Area. 
C. 
Redeveloper owns or has contracted to purchase the Project Site which 
is located in the Redevelopment Area. 
D. 
Redeveloper submitted a redevelopment project proposal to redevelop 
the Project Site.   
E. 
The redevelopment project involves acquisition of the Project Site and 
the construction of a new two-story, approximately 24,000 square foot office 
building, parking lot and associated improvements on the Project Site (the “Project”).    
 
 
2 
F. 
The CDA has approved the redevelopment project, including the 
utilization of tax-increment financing to assist in the cost of the eligible public 
improvements defined in this Redevelopment Agreement. 
G. 
CDA and Redeveloper desire to enter into this Redevelopment 
Agreement for redevelopment of the Project Site. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the mutual 
covenants and agreements herein set forth, CDA and Redeveloper do hereby 
covenant, agree and bind themselves as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION 
Section 1.01 
Terms Defined in this Redevelopment Agreement. 
 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the 
following meanings for all purposes of this Redevelopment Agreement, such 
definitions to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms and 
masculine, feminine and neuter gender of any of the terms defined: 
A. 
“Act” means Article VIII, Section 12 of the Nebraska Constitution, Neb. 
Rev. Stat. §§ 18-2101 through 18-2154, as amended, and acts amendatory thereof 
and supplemental thereto. 
B. 
“CDA” means the Community Development Agency of the City of 
Fremont, Nebraska.  
C. 
“City” means the City of Fremont, Nebraska. 
D. 
“Effective Date” means January 1, 2021. 
 
 
3 
E. 
“Eligible Project Costs” means only costs or expenses incurred by 
Redeveloper for Public Improvements that are eligible for reimbursement under the 
Act. 
F. 
“Minimum Project Valuation” means an amount equal to Three Million 
One Hundred Fifty Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($3,150,000.00). 
G. 
“Private Improvements” means all the private improvements to be 
constructed on the Project Site as more particularly described on Exhibit “A” 
attached and incorporated by this reference. 
H. 
“Project” means the improvements to the Project Site and adjacent 
thereto, including the Private Improvements and Public Improvements defined 
herein and described on Exhibit “A”.   
I. 
“Project Completion Date” means on or before December 31, 2021. 
 
J. 
“Project Site” means all that certain real property situated in the City, 
more particularly described on Exhibit “A”.   
K. 
“Public Improvements” shall include all the public improvements more 
particularly described on Exhibit “A” which are eligible improvements under the Act.  
The costs of the Public Improvements include the debt service payments of the TIF 
Indebtedness. 
L. 
“Redeveloper” means Del Peterson and Associates, Inc., a Nebraska 
corporation, or its assignee, which is subject to the written approval of the CDA. 
M. 
“Redevelopment Agreement” means this Redevelopment Agreement 
between the CDA and Redeveloper with respect to the Project. 
 
 
4 
N. 
 “Redevelopment Area” means the Redevelopment Area that is referred 
to as Redevelopment District #3 and that is legally described in the Redevelopment 
Plan. 
O. 
“Redevelopment 
Plan” 
means 
the 
Redevelopment 
Plan 
for 
Redevelopment District #3 prepared by the City and dated November of 2004, and 
approved by the City Council of the City pursuant to Resolution No. 2004-261, as 
amended by that certain Redevelopment Plan Amendment approved by the City 
Council of the City on May 26, 2020 pursuant to Resolution No. 2020-102.  
P. 
“TIF Indebtedness” means any bonds, notes, loans and advances of 
money or other indebtedness, including interest thereon, issued by the CDA or the 
City secured in whole or in part by TIF Revenues. 
Q. 
“TIF Revenues” or “Tax Increment” means incremental ad valorem taxes 
generated by the Project which are allocated to and paid to the CDA pursuant to the 
Act. 
Section 1.02 
Construction and Interpretation. 
 
The provisions of this Redevelopment Agreement shall be construed and 
interpreted in accordance with the following provisions: 
(a) 
This Redevelopment Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with 
and governed by the laws of the State of Nebraska, including the Act. 
(b) 
Wherever in this Redevelopment Agreement it is provided that any 
person may do or perform any act or thing the word “may” shall be deemed 
permissive and not mandatory and it shall be construed that such person shall have 
the right, but shall not be obligated, to do and perform any such act or thing. 
 
 
5 
(c) 
The word “including” shall be construed as meaning “including, but not 
limited to.” 
(d) 
The words “will” and “shall” shall each be construed as mandatory. 
(e) 
The captions to the sections of this Redevelopment Agreement are for 
convenience only and shall not be deemed part of the text of the respective sections 
and shall not vary by implication or otherwise any of the provisions hereof.   
ARTICLE II 
REPRESENTATIONS 
Section 2.01 
Representations by the CDA. 
 
The CDA makes the following representations and findings: 
(a) 
The CDA is a duly organized and validly existing Community 
Development Agency under the Act. 
(b) 
The CDA deems it to be in the public interest and in furtherance of the 
purposes of the Act to accept the proposal submitted by Redeveloper for the 
redevelopment of the Project Site as specified herein. 
(c) 
The Project will achieve the public purposes of the Act by, among other 
things, increasing employment, increasing the tax base, and lessening blighted and 
substandard conditions in the Redevelopment Area. 
Section 2.02 
Representations of Redeveloper. 
 
Redeveloper makes the following representations and findings: 
(a) 
Redeveloper is a Nebraska corporation, having the power to enter into 
this Redevelopment Agreement and perform all obligations contained herein and by 
proper action has been duly authorized to execute and deliver this Redevelopment 
Agreement. 
 
 
6 
(b) 
The execution and delivery of the Redevelopment Agreement and the 
consummation of the transactions herein contemplated will not conflict with or 
constitute a breach of or default under any bond, debenture, note or other evidence 
of indebtedness or any contract, loan agreement or lease to which Redeveloper is a 
party or by which it is bound, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, 
charge or encumbrance of any nature upon any of the property or assets of 
Redeveloper contrary to the terms of any instrument or agreement. 
(c) 
There is no litigation pending or to the best of its knowledge threatened 
against Redeveloper affecting its ability to carry out the acquisition, construction, 
equipping and furnishing of the Project or the carrying into effect of this 
Redevelopment Agreement or, except as disclosed in writing to the CDA, as to any 
other matter materially affecting the ability of Redeveloper to perform its obligations 
hereunder. 
(d) 
Redeveloper owns or has contracted to purchase the Project Site, in fee 
simple and free from any liens, encumbrances, or restrictions which would prevent 
the performance of this Agreement by Redeveloper. 
(e) 
Redeveloper shall not assign this Agreement to any successor or 
assignee prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Completion without the written 
approval of the CDA, which shall not be unreasonably withheld; provided, however, 
Redeveloper may assign this Agreement and the Project Site to 4-K Capital, LLC, a 
Nebraska limited liability company and an affiliate of Redeveloper, without the 
consent of the CDA. 
ARTICLE III 
OBLIGATIONS OF THE CDA AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS 
 
 
7 
Section 3.01 
Capture of Tax Increment. 
 
Subject to the contingencies described below and to all of the terms and 
conditions of this Agreement, commencing for the tax year of the Effective Date of 
the Project and continuing thereafter, the CDA shall capture the Tax Increment, as 
defined below, from the Project pursuant to the Nebraska Community Development 
Law.  The CDA shall capture the Tax Increment generated by the Project Site for a 
total period of not to exceed fifteen (15) years after the Effective Date once the Private 
Improvements have been completed and included in the assessed valuation of the 
Project Site and the Project Site is generating the Tax Increment subject to capture 
by the CDA (the “TIF Period”).  The effective date of this provision shall be the 
Effective Date of January 1, 2021, thus creating the “Redevelopment Project 
Valuation” or base value as of January 1, 2020.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the 
Redeveloper may, at its election, defer the Effective Date to January 1, 2022 by 
delivering written notice to the CDA on or prior to July 15, 2021, dependent on the 
timing of construction of the Private Improvements.  The CDA shall file with the 
County Assessor the “Notice to Divide Taxes” on or prior to August 1 in the year of 
the Effective Date. 
Section 3.02 
Tax Increment.   
 
The term Tax Increment shall mean, in accordance with Section 18-2147 of 
the Act, the difference between the ad valorem tax which is produced by the tax levy 
(fixed each year by the Dodge County Board of Equalization) for the Project Site 
before the completion of the construction of the Private Improvements for that year 
prior to the year in which the Effective Date falls, and the ad valorem tax which is 
produced by the tax levy for the Project Site after completion of construction of the 
 
 
8 
Private Improvements as part of the Project.  For this Project, the anticipated Tax 
Increment is the difference between the projected taxes payable for 2021 and 
subsequent years through the taxes levied for tax year 2035 (after construction 
completion) and the taxes payable for 2020 (before commencement of construction) 
as more particularly set forth on Exhibit “B”. 
 
The parties acknowledge and agree that ad valorem taxes in Nebraska are 
typically paid in arrears in the year following the year said taxes are due.  
Accordingly, the Tax Increment created in the fifteenth (15th) year of the Project 
pursuant to Section 18-2147 of the Act and this Agreement may be paid in the 
sixteenth (16th) year according to customary practice in Nebraska.  Said payment in 
arrears only affects the timing of tax payments, but does not in any way affect or 
limit the fifteenth (15th) year division of taxes. 
Section 3.03 
Issuance of TIF Indebtedness.   
No sooner than thirty (30) days following the approval and execution of this 
Agreement, the CDA shall incur or issue TIF Indebtedness (the “TIF Note”) in the 
estimated amount of Six Hundred Thirty Two Thousand and No/100 Dollars 
($632,000.00), as calculated on the attached and incorporated Exhibit “B”, 
including an annual interest rate ofnot to exceed five percent (5.0%), to be issued to 
the Redeveloper which shall entitle the holder of the TIF Note to receive the semi-
annual incremental tax payments generated by the Project for the taxes levied for 
the years 2021 through 2035.  The TIF Indebtedness, which shall be in the form of 
a TIF Promissory Note, attached as Exhibit “B-1”, shall not be a general obligation 
of the CDA or City which shall issue such Note solely as a conduit.  The proceeds of 
the TIF Note shall be in the form of a grant by the CDA to the Redeveloper.   
 
 
9 
If the Redeveloper intends to monetize the TIF Note, it shall locate a lender or 
other entity to acquire and fund the acquisition of the TIF Note for this TIF 
Indebtedness.  Redeveloper may pledge or assign the TIF Note to such lender and 
the CDA shall consent to such pledge upon request.  The TIF Note issued to 
Redeveloper shall be secured by a pledge or assignment of the Tax Increment to be 
captured by the CDA.  The Redeveloper acknowledges that, notwithstanding the 
pledge or assignment of the TIF Note to Redeveloper’s lender, if the Project does not 
generate sufficient Tax Increment Revenues or the CDA does not receive sufficient 
Tax Increment Revenues to pay the TIF Note in full, then the CDA shall, in all events, 
only be required to pay the net amount received in Tax Increment Revenues from 
the Project as full payment of the TIF Note. 
Section 3.04  
Use of TIF Indebtedness. 
The CDA will collect and use the Tax Increment in the form of a grant to 
Redeveloper to pay debt service on the TIF Indebtedness incurred as provided in 
Section 3.03 of this Redevelopment Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
the amount of the TIF Note that the CDA agrees to service and repay with the Tax 
Increment shall not exceed the amount of the Eligible Project Costs certified by 
Redeveloper pursuant to Section 4.02 and listed on Exhibit “C”. In addition, upon 
the funding of the TIF Indebtedness by Redeveloper, the CDA shall retain an 
amount sufficient to pay: (a) its reasonable and necessary cost of issuance, 
including attorney fees; (b) its Administrative Fee of one percent (1%); and (c) the 
CDA’s right to designate a sum equal to five percent (5%) towards improvements 
in the Redevelopment Area, all as set forth on Exhibit “C”.  The Tax Increment, 
less the CDA’s costs set forth above, shall be paid pursuant to the terms of any 
 
 
10 
TIF Promissory Note and/or TIF resolution issued by the CDA relating to this 
Project. 
Section 3.05  
Creation of Fund. 
The CDA will create a special fund to collect and hold the receipts of the 
Tax Increment for payment on the TIF Note. Such special fund shall be used for 
no purpose other than to pay TIF Indebtedness issued pursuant to Section 3.03 
above. 
Section 3.06 
Projected TIF Sources and Uses. 
 
The TIF Indebtedness calculation formula set forth on Exhibit “B”, reflects 
the generation of incremental taxes created by the Project anticipated to be in the 
amount of approximately Sixty Three Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($63,000.00) 
for the first year after the completion of construction.  The TIF sources and eligible 
uses are attached on Exhibit “C” and incorporated by this reference.  The 
Projected Uses of the TIF funds are eligible under the Act, and are estimates 
which shall be confirmed upon construction completion and be certified by the 
Redeveloper under Section 4.02 below. 
ARTICLE IV 
OBLIGATIONS OF REDEVELOPER 
Section 4.01 
Construction of Project; Insurance. 
(a)  
Redeveloper will complete the Public Improvements and the Private 
Improvements as described on Exhibit “A” and install all equipment necessary to 
operate the Public Improvements and the Private Improvements no later than the 
Project Completion Date.  Redeveloper shall be solely responsible for obtaining all 
permits and approvals necessary to acquire, construct and equip the Public 
 
 
11 
Improvements and the Private Improvements.  Until construction of the Public 
Improvements and the Private Improvements has been completed, Redeveloper shall 
make reports in such detail and at such times as may be reasonably requested by 
the CDA as to the actual progress of Redeveloper with respect to construction of the 
Public Improvements and the Private Improvements.  Promptly after substantial 
completion by Redeveloper of the Public Improvements and the Private 
Improvements, Redeveloper shall notify the CDA of the completion and request that 
the CDA issue a Certificate of Completion, the form of which is attached as Exhibit 
“D” and incorporated by this reference.  Once issued by the CDA, the Certificate of 
Completion shall be a conclusive determination of satisfaction of the agreements 
and covenants in this Redevelopment Agreement with respect to the obligations of 
Redeveloper to construct the Public Improvements and the Private Improvements, 
and Redeveloper shall be entitled to record the Certificate of Completion. 
(b) 
Any contractor chosen by Redeveloper or Redeveloper itself shall be 
required to obtain and keep in force at all times until completion of construction, 
policies of insurance including coverage for contractors’ general liability and 
completed operations (provided that Redeveloper may self-insure in lieu of obtaining 
and keeping in force such policy of insurance) and a penal bond as required by the 
Act or same alternate form of security.  The CDA shall be named as an additional 
insured.  Any contractor chosen by Redeveloper or Redeveloper itself, as an owner, 
shall be required to purchase and maintain property insurance upon the Project to 
the full insurable value thereof (provided that Redeveloper may self-insure in lieu of 
obtaining and keeping in force such policy of insurance). This insurance shall insure 
 
 
12 
against the perils of fire and extended coverage and shall include “special causes of 
loss” insurance for physical loss or damage.  
Section 4.02  
Cost Certification. 
 
Redeveloper shall submit to the CDA a certification of Eligible Project Costs, 
after expenditure of such project costs to verify the uses described on Exhibit “C”.  
Redeveloper may, at its option, submit one or more partial Eligible Project Costs 
Certifications prior to expenditure of all Eligible Project Costs providing 
certification of receipt of billings for work in progress. All Eligible Project Costs 
Certifications shall be subject to review and approval by the CDA prior to the 
funding of such eligible costs. Determinations by the CDA whether costs included 
in the Eligible Project Costs Certifications are properly included in Eligible Project 
Costs as defined in this Agreement shall be made in its sole discretion and shall 
be conclusive and binding on Redeveloper.  Redeveloper shall be required to 
certify eligible costs up to the principal amount of the TIF Note of Six Hundred 
Thirty Two Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($632,000.00). 
Section 4.03 
No Discrimination. 
 
Redeveloper agrees and covenants for itself, its successors and assigns that 
as long as this Redevelopment Agreement is outstanding, it will not discriminate 
against any person or group of persons on account of race, sex, color, religion, 
national origin, ancestry, disability, marital status or receipt of public assistance in 
connection with the Project.  Redeveloper will comply with all applicable federal, 
state and local laws related to the Project. 
 
 
13 
Section 4.04 
Pay Real Estate Taxes. 
(a) 
Redeveloper intends to create a taxable real property valuation of the 
Project and Project Site of not less than the Minimum Project Valuation set forth in 
Section 1.01(F) above, no later than as of the Project Completion Date.  During the 
period of this Agreement, Redeveloper, its successors and assigns, will: (1) not 
protest a real estate property valuation of the Project and Project Site to a sum less 
than or equal to the Minimum Project Valuation; and (2) not convey the Project Site 
or structures thereon to any entity which would be exempt from the payment of real 
estate taxes or cause the nonpayment of such real estate taxes. 
(b) 
If, during the period of this Agreement, the Project Site is assessed at 
less than the Minimum Project Valuation, Redeveloper shall either: (1) successfully 
protest the valuation of the Project Site upwards such that the valuation is equal to 
or greater than the Minimum Project Valuation; or (2) make a payment in lieu of 
taxes to the CDA upon thirty (30) days written notice in the amount of the shortfall 
equal to the amount the anticipated Tax Increment, as set forth on Exhibit “B”, 
exceeds the actual Tax Increment.  Redeveloper understands and agrees that the 
anticipated Tax Increment is a projection based on assumed values and tax levy 
rates and that the actual Tax Increment may vary substantially from the anticipated 
Tax Increment, in which event the Redeveloper could be obligated to make a 
significant payment in lieu of taxes.    
If Redeveloper is required to pay any such shortfall as a payment in lieu of 
taxes, the Redeveloper shall be entitled to receive reimbursement of any such 
shortfall payment to the extent TIF Revenues later become available during the TIF 
Period in an amount in excess of the amount necessary to meet the current debt 
 
 
14 
service payments.  Any such shortfall amounts not reimbursed at the end of the TIF 
Period shall be forgiven.   
Section 4.05 
No Assignment or Conveyance. 
 
 
Except as otherwise set forth herein, Redeveloper shall not convey, assign or 
transfer the Project Site, any interest therein, or this Agreement prior to the issuance 
of a Certificate of Completion without the prior written consent of the CDA, which 
shall not be unreasonably withheld and which the CDA may make subject to any 
terms or conditions it reasonably deems appropriate, except for the following 
conveyances, which shall be permitted without consent of the CDA:  Any(a) any 
conveyance to an affiliate or subsidiary of Redeveloper; or (b) any assignment as 
security for indebtedness (i) previously incurred by Redeveloper or incurred by 
Redeveloper after the Effective Date for Project costs or any subsequent physical 
improvements to the Project Site with the outstanding principal amount of all such 
indebtedness (whether incurred prior to or after the Effective Date) secured by the 
Project Site which shall have lien priority over the obligations of Redeveloper 
pursuant to this Redevelopment Agreement, or (ii) any additional or subsequent 
conveyance as security for indebtedness incurred by Redeveloper for Project costs 
or any subsequent physical improvements to the Project Site provided that any such 
conveyance shall be subject to the obligations of Redeveloper pursuant to this 
Redevelopment Agreement. 
 
Following the issuance of a Certificate of Completion for the Project, 
Redeveloper is permitted to convey, assign or transfer the Project Site and, at its 
option, to retain the TIF Promissory Note; provided, however, that Redeveloper’s 
successor or assignee shall take title to the Project Site subject to the terms of this 
 
 
15 
Agreement and the Memorandum of Redevelopment Agreement attached hereto as 
Exhibit “E”.  Redeveloper acknowledges and agrees that the TIF Promissory Note is 
payable solely and only out of the Tax Increment Revenue generated by the Project, 
and if the CDA does not receive sufficient Tax Increment Revenues to pay the TIF 
Promissory Note in full, the CDA shall only pay the amount received in Tax 
Increment Revenues from the Project as full payment of the TIF Promissory Note.  
Redeveloper further acknowledges and agrees that the CDA shall not be liable to 
Redeveloper for the CDA’s failure to enforce the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement against Redeveloper’s successor or assignee, including, but not limited 
to, the terms and conditions set forth in Section 4.04 and the CDA’s remedies set 
forth in Article VI. 
ARTICLE V 
FINANCING REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT; ENCUMBRANCES 
Section 5.01 
Financing. 
 
Redeveloper shall pay all costs for the construction of the Private 
Improvements and the Public Improvements.  Redeveloper shall be responsible for 
arranging all necessary financing for the construction of the Public Improvements 
and Private Improvements, including, with respect to the Public Improvements, the 
TIF Indebtedness.  
Section 5.02 
Encumbrances. 
 
Redeveloper shall not create any lien, encumbrance or mortgage on the 
Project or the Project Site except: (a) encumbrances which secure indebtedness 
incurred to acquire, construct and equip the Project or for any other physical 
improvements to the Project Site, (b) easements and rights of entry granted by 
 
 
16 
Redeveloper, (c) construction and materialman liens that may be filed in connection 
with the construction of the Private Improvements so long as any such lien is 
discharged or bonded within 90 days of completion of the Private Improvements, 
and (d) any other liens so long as any such lien is satisfied and released or substitute 
security is posted in lieu thereof within 90 days of Redeveloper receiving notice 
thereof. 
ARTICLE VI 
DEFAULT, REMEDIES; INDEMNIFICATION 
Section 6.01 
General Remedies of the CDA and Redeveloper. 
 
Subject to the further provisions of this Article VI, in the event of any failure 
to perform or breach of this Redevelopment Agreement or any of its terms or 
conditions, by either party hereto or any successor to such party, such party, or 
successor, shall, upon written notice from the other, proceed immediately to 
commence such actions as may be reasonably designed to cure or remedy such 
failure to perform or breach which cure or remedy shall be accomplished within a 
reasonable time by the diligent pursuit of corrective action.  In case such action is 
not taken, or diligently pursued, or the failure to perform or breach shall not be 
cured or remedied within a reasonable time, this Redevelopment Agreement shall be 
in default and the aggrieved party may institute such proceedings as may be 
necessary or desirable to enforce its rights under this Redevelopment Agreement, 
including, but not limited to, proceedings to compel specific performance by the 
party failing to perform or in breach of its obligations; provided that, in view of the 
additional remedies of the CDA set out in Section 6.02, the remedy of specific 
 
 
17 
performance by Redeveloper shall not include or be construed to include the 
covenant to build or construct the Private Improvements or Project. 
Section 6.02  
Additional Remedies of the CDA. 
In the event that: 
(a) 
Redeveloper, or successor in interest, shall fail to commence and 
subsequently complete the construction of the Project on or before the 
Project Completion Date, or shall abandon construction work for any 
period of 120 days (not including any period covered pursuant to the 
terms of Section 6.04 below); 
(b) 
Redeveloper, or successor in interest, shall fail to pay real estate taxes 
or assessments on the Project Site or any part thereof when due, and 
such taxes or assessments or payments in lieu of taxes shall not have 
been paid, or provisions satisfactory to the CDA made for such payment 
within thirty (30) days following written notice from the CDA (upon 
written request to the City, all such notices shall also be provided to 
Redeveloper’s lender);  
(c) 
Redeveloper does not maintain an assessed valuation equal to or 
greater than the Minimum Project Valuation for the Project Site for the 
term of this Agreement and fails to satisfy the obligations of Section 
4.04(b) of this Agreement; or 
(d) 
There is, in violation of Section 4.05 of this Redevelopment Agreement, 
transfer of the Project Site or any part thereof, and such failure or 
action by Redeveloper has not been cured within 30 days following 
 
 
18 
written notice from the CDA (upon written request to the City, all such 
notices shall also be provided to Redeveloper’s lender),  
then Redeveloper shall be in default of this Redevelopment Agreement; and in the 
event that such failure to perform, breach or default is not cured in the period herein 
provided, the parties agree that the damages caused to the CDA would be difficult 
to determine with certainty and that a reasonable estimation of the amount of 
damages that could be incurred is the amount of the grant to Redeveloper pursuant 
to Sections 3.03 and 3.04, less any reductions in the principal amount of the TIF 
Note, plus interest accrued (the “Liquidated Damages Amount”) which shall be paid 
by Redeveloper to the CDA within 30 days of demand by the CDA.  To the extent 
that such failure results in the fact that the CDA is not able to capture the full 
amount of the anticipated Tax Increment contemplated hereunder, Redeveloper 
shall be obligated, on an annual basis, to remit the sum by which the anticipated 
Tax Increment exceeds the actual Tax Increment. 
Section 6.03  
Remedies in the Event of Other Redeveloper Defaults. 
 
In the event Redeveloper fails to perform any other provisions of this 
Redevelopment Agreement (other than those specific provisions contained in Section 
6.02), and such failure has not been cured within 30 days following written notice 
from the CDA, then Redeveloper shall be in default.  In such an instance, the CDA 
may seek to enforce the terms of this Redevelopment Agreement or exercise any 
other remedies that may be provided in this Redevelopment Agreement or by 
applicable law; provided, however, that the default covered by this Section shall not 
give rise to a right of rescission or termination of this Redevelopment Agreement. 
 
 
19 
Section 6.04 
Limitation of Liability; Indemnification. 
 
(a) 
Notwithstanding anything in this Article VI or this Redevelopment 
Agreement to the contrary, neither the CDA, the City, nor their officers, directors, 
employees, agents or their governing bodies shall have any pecuniary obligation or 
monetary liability under this Redevelopment Agreement.  The obligation of the CDA 
on any TIF Indebtedness shall be limited solely to the Tax Increment pledged as 
security for such TIF Indebtedness.  Specifically, but without limitation, neither the 
City nor the CDA shall be liable for any costs, liabilities, actions, demands, or 
damages for failure of any representations, warranties or obligations hereunder.  
Redeveloper releases the CDA and the City from and agrees that the CDA and the 
City shall not be liable for any loss or damage to property or any injury to or death 
of any person that may be occasioned by any cause whatsoever pertaining to the 
Private Improvements.  Provided, however, such release shall not be deemed to 
include such liability actions as arise directly out of the sole negligence or willful 
misconduct of the CDA or the City.  
 
(b) 
Redeveloper agrees to indemnify, defend (at the CDA’s and/or the City’s 
option) and hold harmless the CDA, the City, their respective employees, officials, 
agents, representatives and volunteers from and against any and all liabilities, 
damages, injuries (including death), property damage (including loss of use), claims, 
liens, judgments, costs, expenses, suits, actions, or proceedings and reasonable 
attorney’s fees, and actual damages of any kind or nature, arising out of or in 
connection with any aspect of the acts, omissions, negligence or willful misconduct 
of Redeveloper, its employees, agents, officers, contractors or subcontractors, or 
Redeveloper’s performance or failure to perform under the terms and conditions of 
 
 
20 
this Redevelopment Agreement.  Such indemnification, hold harmless and defense 
obligation shall exclude only such liability actions as arise directly out of acts, 
omissions, or the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the CDA or the City.  The 
indemnification and defense obligations set forth herein shall survive the 
termination of this Redevelopment Agreement.  
ARTICLE VII 
MISCELLANEOUS 
Section 7.01  
Memorandum.  
A Memorandum of this Redevelopment Agreement in the form attached hereto 
as Exhibit “E” and incorporated by this reference shall be recorded with the Dodge 
County Register of Deeds for the Project.     
Section 7.02  
Governing Law. 
 
This Redevelopment Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of 
Nebraska, including the Act. 
Section 7.03  
Binding Effect; Amendment. 
 
This Redevelopment Agreement shall be binding on the parties hereto and 
their respective successors and assigns.  This Redevelopment Agreement shall run 
with the Project Site.  The Redevelopment Agreement shall not be amended except 
by a writing signed by the party to be bound. 
Section 7.04  
No Agency or Partnership. 
 
This Redevelopment Agreement is not intended and shall not be construed to 
create the relationship of agent, servant, employee, partnership, joint venture or 
association as between the CDA and the City, on the one hand, and Redeveloper, on 
the other hand, nor between the CDA and the City, on the one hand, and any officer, 
 
 
21 
employee, contractor or representative of Redeveloper, on the other hand.  No joint 
employment is intended or created by this Redevelopment Agreement for any 
purpose.  Redeveloper agrees to so inform its employees, agents, contractors and 
subcontractors who are involved in the implementation of or construction under this 
Redevelopment Agreement. 
Section 7.05 
Document Retention. 
 
Redeveloper shall retain copies of all supporting documents that are 
associated with the Redevelopment Plan, Project, or this Redevelopment Agreement 
and that are received or generated by the Redeveloper for three years following the 
end of the last fiscal year in which ad valorem taxes are divided for the Project and 
provide such copies to the City as needed to comply with the City’s retention 
requirements under the Act.  Supporting documents shall include, but shall not be 
limited to, any cost-benefit analysis conducted pursuant to Section 18-2113 of the 
Act, and any invoice, receipt, claim, or contract received or generated by the 
Redeveloper that provides support for receipts or payments associated with the 
division of taxes. 
[Signature and Notary Pages to Follow] 
 
 
 
22 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the CDA and Redeveloper have signed this 
Redevelopment Agreement as of the date and year first above written. 
 “CDA” 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
AGENCY OF THE CITY OF  
FREMONT, NEBRASKA 
 
ATTEST: 
 
By:________________________________ 
By: 
________________________________ 
 
Secretary 
 
Chairman 
 
 
 
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA  
) 
) ss. 
COUNTY OF DODGE 
) 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ___ day of June, 
2020, by  
 
 
 
 and   
 
 
, Chairman and Secretary 
respectively of the Community Development Agency of the City of Fremont, 
Nebraska, a public body corporate and politic, on behalf of the Agency. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
 
 
 
 
23 
 
“REDEVELOPER” 
 
DEL PETERSON AND ASSOCIATES, 
INC., a Nebraska corporation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title:  
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA 
) 
 
 
 
 
) ss. 
COUNTY OF DODGE 
) 
 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ___ day of June, 
2020, by _________________, ___________ of Del Peterson and Associates, Inc., a 
Nebraska corporation, on behalf of the corporation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
 
 
TABLE OF EXHIBITS: 
 
Exhibit “A” – Description of Project 
Exhibit “B” – TIF Indebtedness 
Exhibit “B-1” – TIF Note 
Exhibit “C” – Projected TIF Sources and Uses 
Exhibit “D” – Certificate of Completion 
Exhibit “E” – Memorandum of Redevelopment Agreement 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit “A” 
EXHIBIT “A” 
 
DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT 
 
 
The Project undertaken by Redeveloper on the Project Site, defined as the real 
estate legally described as: 
 
Part of Lot 4, of Nelsen Business Park, to the City of Fremont, 
Dodge County, Nebraska, being described as follows: Beginning 
at the Southwest Corner of said Lot 4; thence N00°27'27"E 
(assumed bearing) on the West Line of said Lot 4, a distance of 
73.16 feet to a point of curvature; thence northwesterly 
continuing on said West Line on a 532.50 foot radius curve to 
the left an arc distance of 170.62 feet to a point of reverse 
curvature, the chord of said curve bears N08°43'30"W 169.89 
feet; thence northerly continuing on said West Line on a 467.50 
foot radius curve to the right an arc distance of 149.85 feet to a 
point of tangency, the chord of said curve bears N08°43'30"W 
149.21 feet; thence N00°27'27"E continuing on said West Line, 
a distance of 76.42 feet to a point on the West Right-of-Way Line 
of U.S. Highway No. 275, as previously described and recorded 
in Book 2005, page 0228, of the Dodge County Register of Deeds 
records; thence S86°00'00"E on said West Right-of-Way Line, a 
distance of 100.92 feet, thence S81 °36'18"E continuing on said 
West Right-of-Way Line, a distance of 411.49 feet; thence 
S27°30'16"E continuing on said West Right-of-Way Line, a 
distance of 449.43 feet to a point on the South Line of said Lot 
4; thence N89°56'04"W on said South Line, a distance of 668.09 
feet to the true point of beginning, containing 5.76 acres, more 
or less. 
 
shall consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Private Improvements. The private improvements to be 
constructed by the Redeveloper on the Project Site include a new 
approximately 24,000 square foot office building, parking lot, 
and associated improvements. 
 
(b) 
Public Improvements.  Land acquisition, site preparation and 
grading, 
architectural 
and 
engineering 
fees, 
façade 
enhancements, energy enhancements, and other eligible public 
expenditures under the Act; paid for, in part, by the tax 
increment generated by the Private Improvements. 
 
 
 
Exhibit “B” 
 
EXHIBIT “B” 
 
TIF INDEBTEDNESS 
 
1. 
Principal Amount.  The principal amount of the TIF Indebtedness shall be 
the amount, together with interest accruing thereon, at an annual rate not to 
exceed 5.0%, which can be amortized by the Maturity Date, solely from the 
Tax Increment Revenues based upon the current aggregate ad valorem tax 
rate applicable to the Project Site multiplied by an assumed valuation of 
$3,150,000.00 less the base valuation, subject to required debt service 
coverage, required reserve, and cost of issuance.  
 
2. 
Anticipated Tax Increment:  Approximately $63,000.00 annually. 
 
3. 
Payments.  Semi-annually with interest only until real estate taxes are fully 
collected for the tax year of the Effective Date in an amount sufficient to fully 
amortize the TIF Indebtedness on or before the Maturity Date.   
 
4. 
Maturity Date.  On or before December 31, 2036. 
 
5. 
Notice to Divide Taxes.  The CDA shall file the “Notice to Divide Taxes” with 
the Dodge County Assessor prior to August 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit “B-1” 
EXHIBIT “B-1” 
 
TIF NOTE 
(See Attached) 
 
1 
THIS NOTE HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
(“THE 1933 ACT”) AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED, ASSIGNED, SOLD OR 
HYPOTHECATED UNLESS A REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE 1933 ACT 
SHALL BE IN EFFECT WITH RESPECT THERETO AND THERE SHALL HAVE BEEN 
COMPLIANCE WITH THE 1933 ACT AND ALL APPLICABLE RULES AND 
REGULATIONS THEREUNDER, OR THERE SHALL HAVE BEEN DELIVERED TO 
THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE CITY OF FREMONT PRIOR TO 
TRANSFER, ASSIGNMENT, SALE OR HYPOTHECATION AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, 
SATISFACTORY TO THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE CITY OF 
FREMONT TO THE EFFECT THAT REGISTRATION UNDER THE 1933 ACT IS NOT 
REQUIRED. 
 
Registered 
Registered 
No. 1 
$632,000.00 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
STATE OF NEBRASKA 
THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY  
OF THE CITY OF FREMONT 
 
COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT REVENUE NOTE 
(DPA AUCTIONS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT) 
SERIES 2020 
 
Maturity Date 
Interest Rate 
Original Issuance Date 
December 31, 2036 
5.0%____% 
_____________, 20___ 
 
Registered Holder 
Principal Amount 
__________________________ 
$632,000.00 
 
 
THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE CITY OF FREMONT, 
NEBRASKA (the “Issuer”), a body politic and corporate organized and existing under 
the laws of the State of Nebraska, for value received hereby promises to pay, solely 
from the source and as hereinafter provided, to the Registered Holder identified 
above, or registered assigns, the Principal Amount identified above together with 
five____ percent (5.0%)(____%) interest at the office of the Fremont City Treasurer, 
as Paying Agent and Registrar, from the Original Issuance Date identified above.  
Accrued interest for 2021 shall be made in the form of Interest only payments in two 
(2) installments annually due July 15, 2021 and December 15, 2021. Thereafter 
principal shall be payable in thirty (30) equal semi-annual installments due July 15, 
2022, December 15, 2022, and each June 15 and December 15 thereafter through 
December 15, 2036.  The 2035 tax liability levied for 2035 shall be divided when the 
2035 tax payments are made in 2036.  Payments on this Note will be made by check 
or draft mailed to the Registered Holder in whose name this Note is registered at the 
close of business on the calendar day next preceding the applicable payment date 
at his address as it appears on such note registration books.  The principal of this 
Note is payable in any coin or currency of the United States of America which on the 
Formatted Table
Formatted Table
2 
respective dates of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private 
debts. 
 
 
This Note is designated The Community Development Agency of the City of 
Fremont, Nebraska Redevelopment Revenue Note (DPA Auctions Redevelopment 
Project), Series 2020, aggregating Six Hundred Thirty Two Thousand and 00/100 
Dollars ($632,000.00) (the “Note”) in principal amount which has been issued 
pursuant to Section 12 of Article VIII of the Nebraska Constitution and Neb. Rev. 
Stat. §§ 18-2101 through 18-2154, as amended and supplemented (the “Act”) and 
under and pursuant to a Resolution adopted by the Governing Body of the Issuer 
(the “Resolution”), to aid in the financing of a redevelopment project pursuant to the 
Act.  This Note does not represent a debt or pledge of the faith or credit of the Issuer 
or grant to the Registered Holder of this Note any right to have the Issuer levy any 
taxes or appropriate any funds for the payment of the principal hereof nor is this 
Note a general obligation of the Issuer, or the individual officials, officers or agents 
thereof.  This Note is payable solely and only out of the Tax Increment Revenues 
generated by the Project as identified in the Redevelopment Agreement by and 
between the Issuer and the Registered Holder hereof.  All such revenue has been 
duly pledged for that purpose.  If the Project does not generate sufficient Tax 
Increment Revenues or the Issuer does not receive sufficient Tax Increment 
Revenues to pay the Note in full, then the Issuer shall only pay the net amount 
received in Tax Increment Revenues from the Project as full payment of this Note. 
 
 
THIS NOTE DOES NOT NOW AND SHALL NEVER CONSTITUTE AN 
INDEBTEDNESS OF THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE CITY OF 
FREMONT, NEBRASKA, WITHIN THE MEANING OF ANY STATE CONSTITUTIONAL 
PROVISION OR STATUTORY LIMITATION, NOR SHALL THIS NOTE EVER GIVE 
RISE TO ANY PECUNIARY LIABILITY OF THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
AGENCY OF THE CITY OF FREMONT, NEBRASKA, A CHARGE AGAINST ITS 
GENERAL CREDIT OR TAXING POWERS. 
 
 
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal on this Note, or for 
any claim based hereon or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement contained 
in the Redevelopment Agreement against any past, present or future employee, 
member or elected official of the Issuer, or any incorporator, officer, director, 
member or trustee of any successor corporation, as such, either directly or through 
the Issuer or any successor corporation, under any rule of law or equity, statute or 
constitution or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, and 
all such liability of any such incorporator, officer, director or member as such is 
hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of and in consideration of the 
issuance of this Note. 
 
 
It is hereby certified and recited and the Issuer has found:  that the Project is 
an eligible “redevelopment project” as defined in the Act; that the issuance of this 
Note and the construction of the Project will promote the public welfare and carry 
out the purposes of the Act by, among other things, contributing to the development 
of a blighted and substandard area of the City of Fremont, Nebraska, pursuant to a 
Redevelopment Plan adopted by the City; that all acts, conditions and things 
required to be done precedent to and in the issuance of this Note have been properly 
3 
done, have happened and have been performed in regular and due time, form and 
manner as required by law; and, that this Note does not constitute a debt of the 
Issuer within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory limitations. 
 
 
This Note is transferable only upon the books of the Issuer kept for that 
purpose at the office of the Registrar by the Registered Holder hereof in person, or 
by his duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of this Note together with a written 
instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Registered 
Holder or his duly authorized attorney, together with a purchase letter, and 
thereupon a new registered Note or Notes in the same aggregate principal amounts 
shall be issued to the transferee in exchange therefor, and upon payment of the 
charges therein prescribed. The Issuer and the Paying Agent may deem and treat 
the person in whose name this Note is registered as the absolute owner hereof for 
the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal hereof and 
premium, if any, and interest due hereon and for all other purposes. 
 
 
The Note is issuable in the form of a registered Note without coupons.  Subject 
to such conditions and upon the payment of such charges provided in the 
Resolution, the owner of any registered Note or Notes may surrender the same 
(together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly 
executed by the registered owner or his duly authorized attorney), in exchange for 
an equal aggregate principal amount of registered Notes of any other authorized 
denominations. 
 
 
The Note is prepayable at any time in whole or in part, at a prepayment price 
of par, to the extent there are any funds in the debt service fund in excess of amounts 
necessary to pay scheduled debt service or in the event the Redeveloper directs the 
Issuer that it wishes to prepay the Note. 
 
 
Prepayments shall reduce the number, but not the amount, of scheduled debt 
service payments on the Note, in inverse order of maturity. 
 
 
It is hereby certified and recited that all conditions, acts and things required 
by law and the Redevelopment Agreement to exist, to have happened and to have 
been performed precedent to and in the issuance of this Note, exist, have happened 
and have been performed and that the issue of this Note, together with all other 
indebtedness of the Issuer, is within every debt and other limit prescribed by the 
laws of the State of Nebraska. 
 
 
This Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Redevelopment 
Agreement referred to herein or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until 
this Note shall have been authenticated by the execution by the Registrar of the 
Certificate of Authentication hereon. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF 
THE CITY OF FREMONT, NEBRASKA has caused this Note to be signed in its name 
and on its behalf by the signature of its Chairman and attested by the signature of 
its Secretary, as of the Original Issuance Date identified above. 
 
4 
THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
AGENCY OF THE CITY OF FREMONT, 
NEBRASKA 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
___________________________ 
 
 
By: _______________________________ 
Tyler Ficken, Secretary 
Chairman 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION 
 
 
 
This Note is delivered pursuant to the within-mentioned Resolution. 
 
Fremont City Treasurer,  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as Paying Agent and Registrar  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: _______________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Authorized Signature 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit “C” 
EXHIBIT “C”  
 
PROJECTED TIF SOURCES AND USES 
 
1. 
PROJECTED TIF SOURCES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assumptions: 
Dodge Co. Tax Levy (2019) 
2.047225  
 
 
TIF period (years) 
14   
 
 
Interest Rate:  
5.0%  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property Value Assumptions: 
 
Assessed Value 
Estimated 
Taxes 
 
 
Pre-Project 
$57,000 
$1,000 
 
 
Completed Project 
$3,150,000 
$64,000 
 
 
Difference 
$3,093,000 
$63,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TIF Calculations: 
Annual Tax Increment  
$63,000  
 
 
TIF Loan Amount 
$632,000  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
PROJECTED TIF USES1 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Costs 
  
 
A.  Admin. Fee – 1% 
$6,320 
  
 
B.  Cost of Issuance 
$5,000 
  
 
C.  City Improvements – 5% 
$31,600 
  
 
D.  Site Acquisition 
$125,000 
  
 
E.   Site Preparation & Grading 
$45,000 
  
 
F.   Façade Enhancements 
$450,000 
  
 
G.  Engineering Fees 
$10,000 
  
 
H.  Energy Efficiency Enhancements 
$100,000 
  
 
Total 
$772,920* 
  
 
 
 
  
 
*Eligible TIF Uses are projected to be over $772,920, but the TIF Revenue Projection is 
limited to $632,000 which is the sum generated by the projected incremental revenues 
based on the projected valuation of the redevelopment project.  For purposes of the Cost 
Certification required by Section 4.02, Redeveloper shall be required to certify costs up to 
the amount of the TIF Note of $632,000.
                                                          
 
1 All costs are estimates and are subject to final confirmation and adjustment upon construction completion. 
Formatted Table
Exhibit “D” 
1 
EXHIBIT “D” 
 
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION  
 
 
 
The Community Development Agency of the City of Fremont, Nebraska, a 
municipal corporation in the State of Nebraska (the “CDA”), hereby makes the 
conclusive determination and certification that, with regard to the following real 
property situated in the City of Fremont, Dodge County, Nebraska, to wit: 
 
____________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________
_________________ in the City of Fremont, Dodge County, Nebraska. 
 
(“Redeveloper Property”), all the improvements required to be constructed upon the 
above-described Redeveloper Property have been satisfactorily completed in 
accordance with the requirements of the Redevelopment Agreement (DPA Auctions 
Redevelopment Project) by and between the Community Development Agency of the 
City of Fremont, Nebraska, a municipal corporation in the State of Nebraska, and 
Del Peterson & Associates, Inc., a Nebraska corporation, and its successors and 
assigns (“Redeveloper”), said Agreement dated as of _______________, 2020 and a 
Memorandum of which is recorded as Instrument No. 2020-________, in the office of 
the Register of Deeds for Dodge County, Nebraska. 
 
The CDA further makes the conclusive determination that the Private 
Improvements (as defined in the Agreement) to the above-described Redeveloper 
Property are presently in conformance with the Agreement. 
 
 
 
Exhibit “D” 
2 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the CDA and Redeveloper have executed this 
instrument this ______ day of ______________________, 2020. 
 
 
“CDA” 
 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
 
AGENCY OF THE CITY OF 
 
FREMONT, NEBRASKA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_______________________, Chairperson 
 
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA 
) 
 ) ss.  
COUNTY OF DODGE 
) 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ____ day of 
________________, 2020, by _______________, Chairperson of the Community 
Development Agency of the City of Fremont, Nebraska, on behalf of the Agency. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
Exhibit “D” 
3 
 
“REDEVELOPER” 
 
DEL PETERSON AND ASSOCIATES, 
INC., a Nebraska corporation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title:  
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA 
) 
 
 
 
 
) ss. 
COUNTY OF DODGE 
) 
 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ___ day of 
___________, 2020, by _________________, ___________ of Del Peterson and Associates, 
Inc., a Nebraska corporation, on behalf of the corporation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
 
 
Exhibit “E” 
EXHIBIT “E” 
 
MEMORANDUM OF REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
(See Attached) 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After recording return to: 
Heather A. Carver 
Cline Williams Wright Johnson 
     & Oldfather, L.L.P. 
Sterling Ridge 
12910 Pierce Street, Suite 200 
Omaha, Nebraska 68144 
 
MEMORANDUM OF REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
(DPA AUCTIONS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT) 
 
 
This Memorandum of Redevelopment Agreement (“Memorandum”) is made 
this ___ day of _________, 2020 by and between the Community Development Agency 
of the City of Fremont, Nebraska (“CDA”) and Del Peterson & Associates, Inc., a 
Nebraska corporation (“Redeveloper”). 
 
 
 
1. 
Redevelopment Agreement.  CDA and Redeveloper have entered into 
that certain Redevelopment Agreement dated as of this even date, describing the 
public improvements being made by the CDA in the Redevelopment Area and the 
private improvements being made to real property owned by Redeveloper and legally 
described as: 
 
Part of Lot 4, of Nelsen Business Park, to the City of Fremont, Dodge 
County, Nebraska, being described as follows: Beginning at the 
Southwest Corner of said Lot 4; thence N00°27'27"E (assumed bearing) 
on the West Line of said Lot 4, a distance of 73.16 feet to a point of 
curvature; thence northwesterly continuing on said West Line on a 
532.50 foot radius curve to the left an arc distance of 170.62 feet to a 
point of reverse curvature, the chord of said curve bears N08°43'30"W 
169.89 feet; thence northerly continuing on said West Line on a 467.50 
foot radius curve to the right an arc distance of 149.85 feet to a point 
of tangency, the chord of said curve bears N08°43'30"W 149.21 feet; 
thence N00°27'27"E continuing on said West Line, a distance of 76.42 
feet to a point on the West Right-of-Way Line of U.S. Highway No. 275, 
as previously described and recorded in Book 2005, page 0228, of the 
Dodge County Register of Deeds records; thence S86°00'00"E on said 
West Right-of-Way Line, a distance of 100.92 feet, thence S81 °36'18"E 
2 
continuing on said West Right-of-Way Line, a distance of 411.49 feet; 
thence S27°30'16"E continuing on said West Right-of-Way Line, a 
distance of 449.43 feet to a point on the South Line of said Lot 4; thence 
N89°56'04"W on said South Line, a distance of 668.09 feet to the true 
point of beginning, containing 5.76 acres, more or less. 
 
 
2. 
Tax Increment Financing.  The Redevelopment Agreement provides 
for the capture of the Tax Increment, as defined therein, by the CDA of the private 
improvements to be made by the Redeveloper for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) 
years after the Project Effective Date of January 1, 2021.  The Tax Increment so 
captured by the CDA shall be used to make the public improvements as described 
in the Redevelopment Agreement.   
 
 
3. 
Remaining Terms.  The rest and remaining terms of the 
Redevelopment Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Memorandum as if they 
were set forth in full.  A full and correct copy of the Redevelopment Agreement may 
be inspected at the CDA offices in Fremont, Nebraska. 
 
 
3 
 
 
“CDA” 
 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
 
AGENCY OF THE CITY OF 
 
FREMONT, NEBRASKA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_______________________, Chairperson 
 
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA 
) 
 ) ss.  
COUNTY OF DODGE 
) 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ____ day of 
________________, 
2020, 
by _____________, 
Chairperson 
of 
the Community 
Development Agency of the City of Fremont, Nebraska, on behalf of the Agency. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
4 
 
“REDEVELOPER” 
 
DEL PETERSON AND ASSOCIATES, 
INC., a Nebraska corporation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title:  
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA 
) 
 
 
 
 
) ss. 
COUNTY OF DODGE 
) 
 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ___ day of 
___________, 2020, by _________________, ___________ of Del Peterson and Associates, 
Inc., a Nebraska corporation, on behalf of the corporation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4842-4270-27814826-0797-3309, v. 12 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE 
CITY OF FREMONT, NEBRASKA 
 
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-008 
(Redevelopment Agreement for the DPA Auctions Redevelopment Project) 
 
A RESOLUTION OF THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE 
CITY 
OF 
FREMONT, 
NEBRASKA 
APPROVING 
THE 
REDEVELOPMENT 
AGREEMENT FOR THE DPA AUCTIONS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AND 
AUTHORIZING 
THE 
ISSUANCE 
OF 
TAX 
INCREMENT 
FINANCING 
INDEBTEDNESS. 
 
WHEREAS, the Community Development Agency of the City of Fremont, 
Nebraska (the “CDA”) on May 26, 2020 approved and adopted an Amendment to the 
Redevelopment Plan for a certain redevelopment area located in the City of Fremont, 
Nebraska and identified as Redevelopment District #3 (the “Redevelopment Area”) 
and a Cost-Benefit Analysis for the DPA Auctions Redevelopment Project (the 
“Project”) pursuant to the Nebraska Community Development Law codified at Neb. 
Rev. Stat. §§ 18-2101 et seq. (the “Act”); 
 
WHEREAS, a copy of the Redevelopment Agreement by and between the CDA 
and Del Peterson and Associates, Inc., a Nebraska corporation, that will implement 
and govern the Project (the “Redevelopment Agreement”) 
is attached as Attachment 
“A” and incorporated herein by this reference; 
 
WHEREAS, on June 9, 2020, a meeting of the Community Development 
Agency was held at the Fremont City Council Chambers, 400 East Military Road, in 
Fremont, Nebraska in order to determine whether the Redevelopment Agreement 
should be approved; 
 
WHEREAS, the Redevelopment Plan and the Redevelopment Agreement will, 
in accordance with the present and future needs of the City of Fremont, promote the 
health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and the general welfare of 
the 
community in conformance with the legislative declarations and determinations 
set 
forth in the Act; 
 
WHEREAS, the Redevelopment Plan is feasible and is in conformance with 
the general plan for development of the City and its objectives are being 
accomplished in the Redevelopment Agreement for the Project; 
 
WHEREAS, the Project as described in the Redevelopment Agreement would 
not be economically feasible as designed without the use of tax increment financing; 
and the Project as designed would not occur in the Redevelopment Area without the 
use of tax increment financing; and the Project is in the long-term best interests of 
the community; 
 
WHEREAS, the Community Development Agency has reviewed the 
Redevelopment Agreement and has found it to be in conformity with the Act and the 
general plan for development of the City of Fremont, and in the best interests of the 
City of Fremont; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Act and in light of the foregoing 
findings and determinations, the Community Development Agency desires to approve 
the Redevelopment Agreement and to approve the issuance of TIF Indebtedness in 
the form of the TIF Note attached to the Redevelopment Agreement as Exhibit “B-1”, 
in an amount not to exceed Six Hundred Thirty Two Thousand and No/100 dollars 
($632,000.00). 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Community Development 
Agency of the City of Fremont, Nebraska does hereby approve and adopt the 
Redevelopment Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as Attachment 
“A”; 
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Community Development Agency of the 
City of Fremont hereby authorizes its legal counsel to finalize the terms and 
conditions of the Redevelopment Agreement on behalf of the Community 
Development Agency, and that any and all actions previously taken by its legal 
counsel to fulfill this resolution are hereby ratified and approved, except that the 
amount of the TIF Indebtedness and the use of the TIF proceeds shall not be 
modified without the consent and approval of the Community Development Agency; 
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Community Development Agency of the 
City of Fremont is hereby authorized, following the lapse of thirty (30) days after the 
approval of the Redevelopment Agreement, to issue TIF indebtedness in an amount 
not to exceed Six Hundred Thirty Two Thousand and No/100 dollars ($632,000.00), 
in the form of the TIF Note attached to the Redevelopment Agreement as Exhibit “B-
1”, with such TIF Indebtedness to be repaid solely from the Tax Increment created 
by the Project and does not represent the general obligation of the Community 
Development Agency nor the City of Fremont; and 
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Community Development Agency 
hereby authorizes its Chair to execute and deliver the Redevelopment Agreement and 
to take all such other actions contemplated and required by the Redevelopment 
Agreement and to fulfill the resolutions set forth above. 
 
DATED THIS 9th DAY OF June, 2020. 
 
THE CITY OF FREMONT, NEBRASKA 
 
 
By:   
 
Scott Getzschman, Chairperson 
 
 
ATTEST:   
 
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk 
ATTACHMENT “A” 
 
Redevelopment Agreement 
 
[See Attached] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4825-8875-2828, v. 1 
 
 
 
STAFF REPORT  
 
 
TO: 
Honorable Mayor and Fremont City Council 
FROM: 
Alan Kaspar, Director of Electrical Engineering  
 
Troy Schaben, Assistant City Administrator Utilities 
DATE: 
June 9, 2020 
SUBJECT:     Amendment No. 1 - Reimbursement and Indemnification Agreement with 
WholeStone Farms for Engineering Design Services for Substation H. 
 
Recommendation:  Approve resolution 2020-112 
 
Background:   
 
The City has previously signed an agreement with Wholestone Farms wherein Wholestone has 
agreed to reimburse the City for work completed by HDR Engineering, Inc. for the design of a new 
Substation (Substation H).  The document associated with this staff report is an amendment to said 
agreement. 
 
HDR Engineering, Inc. has provided the City with an estimate of probable cost for the construction 
of the substation of approximately $5,141,371.00.  Based on coordination with Wholestone’s 
engineer, the City has established that the expanded electrical demands by Wholestone will utilize 
approximately 63.63% of the available capacity of the new substation. The amendment stipulates 
that Wholestone reimburse and indemnify the City for this portion of the estimated cost to construct 
the new electrical substation.  The value of this reimbursement would be (not to exceed) 
$3,271,455.00 as outlined in the amendment. 
 
The Utility & Infrastructure Board approved this recommendation with a 5-0 vote at their 
meeting on May 12, 2020. 
  
Fiscal Impact:   
 
This amendment itself stipulates a reimbursement value from the customer and does not yet 
involve a direct cost or expenditure to the City.  Once the design package is complete, bids for 
construction will be solicited and received, and the City’s portion of the overall cost will be 
determined.   
 
00556050-2 
 
REIMBURSEMENT AND 
INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT 
FOR DESIGN ENGINEER 
This Reimbursement and Indemnification Agreement (the “Agreement”) is made and entered into on  this 
____ day of  
, 2020, between the City of Fremont, a municipal political subdivision of the State of 
Nebraska (“City”), whose address for the purposes of this Agreement is 400 East Military Avenue, Fremont NE 
68025, and WholeStone Farms, Inc. a Nebraska corporation (“WholeStone”), whose address for the purposes of 
this Agreement is 900 South Platte Ave, Fremont, NE 68025. 
 
PRELIMINARY STATEMENT 
 
The City has engaged the services of HDR Engineering, Inc. to assist the City in the design of a proposed 
electrical substation (Substation H) for the expanded electrical demands by WholeStone. The City and 
Wholestone have agreed to the minimum specifications (the “Minimum Specifications”) of Substation H. 
WholeStone has agreed to reimburse and indemnify the City for its expenses to engage HDR Engineering, Inc. 
for the design of an electrical substation satisfying the Minimum Specifications, subject to the terms and 
conditions set forth below. 
 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
Now, therefore, in consideration of the foregoing Preliminary Statement which is included herein by this 
reference and the mutual covenants of the parties hereto, it is agreed as follows: 
 
1. 
WholeStone shall reimburse the City for its expenses to engage the services of HDR Engineering, 
Inc. in designing an electrical substation that satisfies the Minimum Specifications, not to exceed $301,395.00. 
WholeStone shall pay the City within thirty (30) days of its receipt of an invoice from the City, including a 
commercially reasonable level of detail describing the service provided in such a manner that Wholestone can 
determine that the electrical substation is being constructed in accordance with the Minimum Specifications and 
the costs related thereto. If WholeStone (a) elects to discontinue its pursuit of expanded electrical demands, 
whether because the electrical substation is not being constructed in accordance with the Minimum Specifications 
or for any other reason, and (b) notifies the City (in writing) of such election, then WholeStone shall only be 
responsible for the City’s out-of-pocket expenses that accrued prior to the City’s receipt of WholeStone’s notice 
(not to exceed $301,395.00 in any event). 
 
2. 
WholeStone hereby agrees to indemnify and hold the City harmless from and against any and all 
liabilities, expenses including reasonable attorneys’ and engineers’ fees, orders, lawsuits, causes of actions, 
claims, damages, costs, penalties, fines, interest and demands whatsoever suffered, threatened against, or paid, or 
incurred by the City in connection  with, or arising from, WholeStone’s failure to reimburse the 
 
City in accordance 
with the terms of this Agreement. 
 
3. 
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the 
parties. 
 
4. 
All notices or other communications required or permitted by this Agreement shall be in writing 
00556050-2 
 
and in all cases addressed to the party at the location or address indicated above. Such notice shall be considered 
to be properly given by and received by a party (i) whenever delivered in person, or (ii) on the date a return receipt 
is signed by a party when sent by certified mail, regardless of when received or delivered.  A party shall have the 
right to change its address for notice or other communication to any other person or location within the continental 
United States by giving prior written notice to the other party. 
 
5. 
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original and 
all of which together will constitute one agreement. Each counterpart may be delivered by facsimile or computer-
scanned image transmission. The signature page of any counterpart may be detached therefrom without impairing 
the legal effect of the signature(s) thereon provided such signature page is attached to any other counterpart 
identical thereto. 
 
6. 
No amendment of this Agreement shall be valid unless it is in writing and is signed by the parties 
or by their duly authorized representatives, and unless it specifies the nature and extent of the amendment. 
 
7. 
The City and WholeStone each agree to abide by all federal, state, and local laws, statutes, 
ordinances and regulations governing the activities discussed herein. WholeStone shall comply with, and 
indemnify the City against any violations of applicable regulations promulgated by the Environmental Protection 
Agency or other government agencies regulating any activities engaged in by WholeStone. 
 
8. 
This Agreement, and the rights and duties of the parties arising from or relating in any way to the 
terms, covenants, or conditions of this Agreement shall be governed by, construed and enforced in accordance 
with the laws of the State of Nebraska. 
 
9. 
Wholestone is required and hereby agrees to use a federal immigration verification system to 
determine the work eligibility status of new employees physically performing services within the State of 
Nebraska. A federal immigration verification system means the electronic verification of the work authorization 
program authorized by the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, 8 U.S.C. 
1324a, known as the E-Verify Program, or an equivalent federal program designated by the United States 
Department of Homeland Security or other federal agency authorized to verify the work eligibility status of a 
newly hired employee.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
[The remainder of this page has intentionally been left blank. Signature page to follow.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
00556050-2 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement was executed on the date as first written hereinabove. 
 
 WHOLESTONE FARMS, INC. 
CITY OF FREMONT, NEBRASKA, 
 
A Nebraska Corporation, 
A municipal political subdivision of the State of Nebraska, 
 
By: 
  
Name:  
 
By: 
 
 
Scott Getzschman, Mayor 
Title:  
 
 
ATTEST 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk 
Travis Jacott, City Attorney 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
1 
 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO REIMBURSEMENT AND INDEMNIFICATION FOR 
DESIGN ENGINEER 
This AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO REIMBURSEMENT AND INDEMNIFICATION FOR 
DESIGN ENGINEER (this “Amendment”) is made as of __________ ___, 2020 (“Effective 
Date”) by and between the City of Fremont, a municipal political subdivision of the State of 
Nebraska (“City”), whose address for the purposes of this Agreement is 400 East Military Avenue, 
Fremont NE 68025, and WholeStone Farms, Inc. a Nebraska corporation (“WholeStone”), whose 
address for the purposes of this Agreement is 900 South Platte Ave, Fremont, NE 68025. 
RECITALS 
A. WHEREAS, City and Wholestone are Parties to the certain Reimbursement and 
Indemnification for Design Engineer Agreement (“Agreement”), dated as of March 3, 2020; and 
B. WHEREAS, the Parties mutually desire to modify certain terms and conditions of the 
Agreement, as more fully set forth herein. 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and other good and valuable 
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as 
follows: 
1. 
Definitions.  Capitalized terms used in this Amendment and not otherwise defined herein 
shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Agreement. 
2. 
Amendment Effective Date.  The Parties agree to amend the Agreement as set forth in 
Section 6 hereof, which amendments will be effective as of the Effective Date. 
3. 
Amendments.   
(a) 
The main title of the certain Reimbursement and Indemnification for Design 
Engineer Agreement shall be amended by deleting the words “for Design Engineer” 
and inserting “Electrical Substation” in lieu thereof. 
(b) 
The title: Preliminary Statement of the certain Reimbursement and Indemnification 
for Design Engineer Agreement shall be amended by making the title plural and 
shall read, Preliminary Statements.” 
(c) 
The following paragraph shall be added under Preliminary Statement of the certain 
Reimbursement and Indemnification for Design Engineer Agreement: 
“The City has engaged the services of HDR Engineering, Inc. to provide the City 
with an estimate of probable cost for the construction of an electrical substation 
(Substation H) for expanded electrical demands by WholeStone.  The estimate 
provided by HDR Engineering, Inc. has indicated the probable cost of the new 
substation to be approximately $5,141,371.00.  Based on coordination with 
Wholestone’s engineer, the City has established that the expanded electrical 
demands by Wholestone will utilize approximately 63.63% of the available 
capacity of the new substation. WholeStone has agreed to reimburse and indemnify 
the City for this portion of the estimated cost to construct the new electrical 
substation, subject to the terms and conditions set forth below.” 
 
2 
 
(d) 
The paragraph identified as 1. under Terms and Conditions of the certain 
Reimbursement and Indemnification for Design Engineer Agreement be amended 
as follows: 
“1. Wholestone shall reimburse the City: 
a. For its expenses to engage the services of HDR Engineering, Inc. in 
designing an electrical substation that satisfies the Minimum 
Specifications, not to exceed $301,395.00.  
b. At a rate of 63.63% of expenses accrued to construct a new electrical 
substation, not to exceed $3,271,455.00. 
WholeStone shall pay the City within thirty (30) days of its receipt of an invoice 
from the City, including a commercially reasonable level of detail describing the 
service provided in such a manner that Wholestone can determine that the 
electrical substation is being constructed in accordance with the Minimum 
Specifications and the costs related thereto. If WholeStone (a) elects to 
discontinue its pursuit of expanded electrical demands, whether because the 
electrical substation is not being constructed in accordance with the Minimum 
Specifications or for any other reason, and (b) notifies the City (in writing) of 
such election, then WholeStone shall only be responsible for the City’s out-of-
pocket expenses that accrued prior to the City’s receipt of WholeStone’s notice.” 
(e) 
The paragraph identified as 7 under Terms and Conditions of the certain 
Reimbursement and Indemnification for Design Engineer Agreement be amended 
to read as follows: 
“The City and WholeStone each agree to abide by all federal, state, and local 
laws, statutes, ordinances and regulations governing the activities discussed 
herein. Wholestone shall comply with, and indemnify the City against any 
violations by Wholestone of applicable State or County electrical codes regulating 
any electrical usage or equipment by Wholestone that causes harm to City 
equipment. Wholestone shall have the right to assert its own defenses against any 
allegations that it has violated applicable electrical codes or that the violation 
caused damages.” 
4. 
General Terms.   
(a) 
Except to the extent expressly modified by this Agreement, all other terms and 
conditions of the certain Reimbursement and Indemnification for Design Engineer 
Agreement will remain unmodified and continue in full force and effect.  Any 
reference to the certain Reimbursement and Indemnification for Design Engineer 
Agreement from and after the Effective Date will be deemed to refer to the certain 
Reimbursement and Indemnification for Design Engineer Agreement as amended 
hereby, unless otherwise expressly stated. 
 
3 
 
(b) 
Governing Law.  This Amendment will be governed by the same state whose laws 
govern the certain Reimbursement and Indemnification for Design Engineer 
Agreement. 
(c) 
Counterparts.  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, 
each of which will be an original and all of which together will constitute one and 
the same agreement.  
 
[The remainder of this page has intentionally been left blank. Signature page to follow.] 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement was executed on the date as first written 
hereinabove. 
 
WHOLESTONE FARMS, INC. 
CITY OF FREMONT, NEBRASKA, 
A Nebraska Corporation, 
A municipal political subdivision of the 
State of Nebraska, 
 
By: _______________________________  
By: _______________________________ 
 
Name: _____________________________ 
Name: Scott Getzschman 
 
Title:______________________________ 
Title: Mayor 
 
 
ATTEST 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
________________________________________ 
______________________________________ 
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk 
City Attorney 
 
 
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-112 
 
 
A Resolution of the City Council of the City of Fremont, Nebraska, to authorize 
the execution of Amendment No. 1 to Reimbursement and Indemnification 
Agreement with WholeStone Farms Inc.  
 
WHEREAS, staff has reviewed Amendment No. 1 and found it to be acceptable; and, 
 
WHEREAS, WholeStone Farms Inc. has reviewed and approved said amendment; 
and, 
 
WHEREAS, The Utility & Infrastructure Board approved this recommendation with a 
 
5-0 vote at their meeting on May 12, 2020. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by the City Council of the City of Fremont, 
that the Mayor be authorized to sign the attached Amendment No. 1 to 
Reimbursement and Indemnification Agreement with WholeStone Farms Inc. 
 
 
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 9th DAY OF JUNE, 2020.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
Scott Getzschman, Mayor 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
_______________________________________ 
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk 
 
STAFF REPORT  
 
 
TO: 
 
HONORABLE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL  
 
FROM: 
Dave Goedeken, P.E. 
Director of Public Works/City Engineer  
 
DATE: 
 
June 9, 2020 
 
SUBJECT: 
Professional Services Agreement with Davis Design, Inc., for 
Architectural Services in connection with the Proposed Aircraft 
Terminal Building at the Fremont Airport 
 
 
 
 
 
Background:  The City of Fremont, has entered into previous Architectural and 
Engineering Design Agreements with Davis Design of Lincoln, Nebraska for the 
planning and design of a proposed new Terminal Building and Aircraft Apron 
Area at the Fremont Airport.  This agreement was approved by the City Council 
at their April 11, 2017 meeting.  A Phase 1 (Schematic Design Phase) was 
entered into with Davis Design on January 28th, 2020. 
 
The initial phase of the effort was to provide a needs assessment and site layout 
design for the proposed site, mostly FAA and NDOT coordination.  Davis Design 
had procured the services of Burns McDonnell of Kansas City to complete the 
planning phase of the project and to coordinate with the FAA to program this 
project.  The site layout has been approved by the FAA and NDOT.  This phase 
of the project is under construction at the present time. 
 
Phase 1 Services were for the Schematic, or Preliminary Design Process, where 
the options and layouts were considered by Staff and the Airport Advisory Board.  
The Board approved these at the May 15th Board Meeting.  Fee for services of 
Phase 1 were $25,000.00.  The schematic process included floorplan and site 
layout for the terminal building, but also considered the layout of an attached 
FBO maintenance hangar. 
 
Phase 2 Services will take the approved schematic site and floor plan of the 
Terminal Building and FBO Maintenance Hangar, and prepare the final 
construction documents and construction cost estimates.  The Architectural 
Services Agreement for Phase 2 Services was approved by the Advisory Board 
at their May 15th meeting.  The Board approved the agreement and 
recommended the Agreement to the City Council for their consideration at the 
May 26th City Council meeting.   
Recommendation:  Approve Resolution 2020-113 approving Architectural 
Services Agreement for the Airport Terminal Building. 
 
The purpose of designing both the terminal and FBO buildings does not commit 
the City to constructing both buildings at this time.  The two buildings will share a 
common wall, the intent is to design both buildings at the same time and avoid 
future retrofitting inconsistencies.  
 
Phase 3 will be construction management phase services during the actual 
construction of the project.  The fee for phase 3 will be negotiated prior to 
commencing to the construction phase. 
 
Fiscal Impact:  The fee for services for Phase 2 services is $160,000.00, plus 
reimbursable expenses.  The cost of design work will be paid with City Funds 
and has been approved in the 2019/2020 Capital Improvement Plan. 
 
Project:
Fremont Municipal Airport
Terminal & FBO Building
Estimate Type:
Cost Estimate (Schematic Design)(Revised 5-12-2020 )
Date:
New Terminal Building Area
3,645
SF
New FBO Facility Building Area
15,600
SF
Total New Building Area
19,245
SF
Terminal Building Construction Costs
$1,388,043
FBO Building Construction Costs
$1,590,577
Total Project Construction Costs Only
$2,978,620
Design Fees and Soft Costs for Full Project
$297,862
Total Project Costs
$3,276,482
Estimated By:
Davis Design & Alfred Benesch
Terminal Building
Quantity
Unit Cost
Amount
Total
 1.  New Stairway Construction At Shooting Range
Sitework
a. Misc. Grading and Earthwork
4,500
CY
$15.00
$67,500
b. 8" Sanitary Sewer
1,200
LF
$65.00
$78,000
c. 6" Fire Water Line
1,200
LF
$55.00
$66,000
d. 2.5" Domestic Water Line
1,200
LF
$60.00
$72,000
e. Post Indicator Valve
1
EA
$2,000.00
$2,000
f. 6"Concrete Slab At Public Parking Lot
1,456
SY
$60.00
$87,333
g. Rock Overflow Parking at Public Parking Lot
1
Lump Sum
$5,000.00
$5,000
h. Sidewalks and Patio
1,290
SF
$5.50
$7,095
i. 8" Access Road to Old Highway #30
936
SY
$75.00
$70,183
j. 8" Access Road and Parking to North Side of FBO
0
SY
$75.00
$0
k. 11" Concrete North of Apron Drive
0
SY
$95.00
$0
l. 11" Concrete South of Apron Drive
0
SY
$95.00
$0
m. Seeding
2
Acre
$4,500.00
$9,000
n. Storm Water Pollution prevention
1
LS
$5,000.00
$5,000
o. Pavement Marking
1
LS
$3,000.00
$3,000
p. Site Lighting Allowance at Parking Lot
1
Poles
$5,000.00
$5,000
$477,112
 2. Terminal Building Construction
a. New Terminal Facility
3,645
SF
$225.00
$820,125
$820,125
General Construction Costs Estimate
$1,297,237
Contingency
7.00%
$90,807
Total Estimated Project Construction Costs
$1,388,043
FBO Facility
 1.  New Stairway Construction At Shooting Range
Sitework
a. Misc. Grading and Earthwork
0
CY
$15.00
$0
b. 8" Sanitary Sewer
0
LF
$65.00
$0
c. 6" Fire Water Line
0
LF
$55.00
$0
d. 2.5" Domestic Water Line
0
LF
$60.00
$0
e. Post Indicator Valve
0
EA
$2,000.00
$0
f. 6"Concrete Slab At Public Parking Lot
0
SY
$60.00
$0
g. Rock Overflow Parking at Public Parking Lot
0
Lump Sum
$5,000.00
$0
h. Sidewalks and Patio
0
SF
$5.50
$0
i. 8" Access Road to Old Highway #30
0
SY
$75.00
$0
j. 8" Access Road and Parking to North Side of FBO
383
SY
$75.00
$28,725
k. 11" Concrete North of Apron Drive
699
SY
$95.00
$66,426
l. 11" Concrete South of Apron Drive
524
SY
$95.00
$49,769
m. Seeding
0
Acre
$4,500.00
$0
n. Storm Water Pollution prevention
0
LS
$5,000.00
$0
o. Pavement Marking
0
LS
$3,000.00
$0
p. Site Lighting Allowance at Parking Lot
0
Poles
$5,000.00
$0
$144,921
 2. FBO Building Construction
a. New FBO Facility
15,600
SF
$86.00
$1,341,600
$1,341,600
General Construction Costs Estimate
$1,486,521
Contingency
7.00%
$104,056
Total Estimated Project Construction Costs
$1,590,577
Tuesday, May 12, 2020
D:\Freemont Airport\Teminal Building\Cost Estimate\5-12-20 Estimate\Fremont Terminal & FBO Estimate 5-12-20]
BRL-U
BRL-U
TOFA
TOFA
TOFA
TOFA
FBO
TERMINAL
40 PARKING STALLS
3,645 GSF
15,600 GSF
PHASE 1 
PHASE 2 
PARKING 
EXPANSION AREA
15 East Main, Suite 201
Vermillion SD 57069
Phone 605-624-1081
Vermillion
1221 N Street, Suite 600
Lincoln NE 68508
Phone  402-476-9700
Fax 402-476-9722
Lincoln
C:\Users\dayna.hoch\Desktop\Fremont-Airport
Terminal\BIM\20-0095_FremontTerminal_AI_V18_SiteOption2.rvt
5/4/2020 3:58:56 PM
City of Fremont
Fremont Airport Terminal
A-001
05/04/2020
Site Plan
1" = 60'-0"
1
SITE PLAN
14538 SF
HANGAR
105' - 0"
GULFSTREAM 500
CITATION SOVEREIGN
8"
20' - 0"
8"
30' - 0"
600 SF
TOOL STORAGE
120' - 0"
130' - 0"
93' - 6 1/16"
63' - 3 13/16"
63' - 5 13/16"
96' - 5 1/16"
BRL-U
PATIO
TERMINAL:   3,645 GSF
FBO: 
   15,600 GSF
AREA LEGEND
20' - 5"
3 5/8"
8' - 0"
3 5/8"
8' - 0"
3 5/8"
9' - 10"
3 5/8"
9' - 10"
3 5/8"
5' - 0"
3 5/8"
7' - 1 1/8"
3 5/8"
9' - 11 1/8"
578 SF
LOUNGE
304 SF
RECEPTION
SIMULATOR
16 SEATS
VENDING
COATS
130 SF
WOMEN
130 SF
MEN
81' - 0"
16' - 8 1/2"
3 5/8"
6' - 0"
3 5/8"
19' - 6"
58 SF
MECH/JAN
58 SF
STORAGE
20' - 0"
3 5/8"
1' - 7 1/4"
3 5/8"
30' - 0"
3 5/8"
10' - 0"
3 5/8"
17' - 1 1/8"
16' - 8 1/2"
3 5/8"
6' - 0"
3 5/8"
6' - 0"
3 5/8"
6' - 10 3/4"
3 5/8"
6' - 0"
162 SF
OFFICE
239 SF
FBO OFFICE
328 SF
PILOT'S LOUNGE
162 SF
OFFICE
DISPLAY
42 SF
UNISEX
67 SF
UNISEX
580 SF
MEETING ROOM
COATS
LIBRARY
45' - 0"
15 East Main, Suite 201
Vermillion SD 57069
Phone 605-624-1081
Vermillion
1221 N Street, Suite 600
Lincoln NE 68508
Phone  402-476-9700
Fax 402-476-9722
Lincoln
C:\Users\dayna.hoch\Desktop\Fremont-Airport
Terminal\BIM\20-0095_FremontTerminal_AI_V18_SiteOption2.rvt
5/4/2020 3:58:57 PM
City of Fremont
Fremont Airport Terminal
A-002
05/04/2020
Floor Plan
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
FLOOR PLAN
 
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-113 
 
A Resolution of the City Council of the City of Fremont, Nebraska to authorize to 
approval of Architectural Services Agreement with Davis Design, Inc. for Design 
Services in connection with the Aircraft Terminal Building at the Fremont Airport. 
 
WHEREAS,  the City of Fremont has entered into the original Engineering Services 
agreement with Davis Design, Inc. on April 11, 2017; and 
 
WHEREAS,  The City of Fremont has entered into Phase 1 Services of the Architectural 
Services Agreement with Davis Design, Inc. on January 28, 2020; and 
 
WHEREAS,  Phase 2 Services of the Architectural Services Agreement is a not to 
exceed amount of $160,000.00 (Plus reimbursable expenses); and 
 
WHEREAS,  Fees for Phase 3 Services will be negotiated at a later date. 
 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:  That the City Council of the City of Fremont, 
Nebraska to authorize to approve the Architectural Services Agreement with Davis 
Design, Inc. in connection with the Aircraft Terminal Building at the Fremont Airport. 
 
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 9th DAY OF June, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scott Getzschman, Mayor 
ATTEST: 
 
___________________________ 
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk 
 
 
1
Newton, Brian
From:
Richart, Ann <ann.richart@nebraska.gov>
Sent:
Thursday, June 4, 2020 2:00 PM
To:
Newton, Brian
Cc:
Goedeken, Dave
Subject:
RE: Airport Economic Impact Study Data for Fremont
Brian – 
 
The report is not quite complete yet, but I do have FET numbers.  Total annual economic impact of the Fremont Airport 
is $10,541,000.  This includes $2,663,000 in payroll for 91 total jobs that the airport creates. 
 
This does not mean that there are 91 people who work on the airport, obviously, but includes businesses that provide 
services to the airport.  The $10,541,000 total includes direct revenue that the airport brings in, average annual 
construction costs on the airport, and the money that airport users and passengers spend in town. 
 
I hope this gives you what you need.  Let me know if there’s anything else we can do to support you. 
 
Ann 
 
Ann B. Richart, AAE 
Director of Aeronautics 
Nebraska Department of Transportation 
(402) 471-7922 
 
 
 
From: Newton, Brian <Brian.Newton@fremontne.gov>  
Sent: Thursday, June 4, 2020 11:58 AM 
To: Richart, Ann <ann.richart@nebraska.gov> 
Cc: Goedeken, Dave <Dave.Goedeken@fremontne.gov> 
Subject: Airport Economic Impact Study Data for Fremont 
 
Hi Ann, I hope you are well! Next Tuesday evening the Fremont City Council will consider the approval of an 
Architectural Services Agreement with Davis Design for the new terminal building design. I know you said the State 
commissioned a study to determine the economic impact an airport has on the City its located in. Is that study available 
or are the numbers available for Fremont? Having this information would really help us explain the value of the airport 
as an important economic development tool for the City. 
 
If you can provide me with some information from the study, I would greatly appreciate it. If not, I understand.  
 
Thank you! Brian 
 
 
 
 
 
STAFF REPORT  
 
 
TO: 
 
Honorable Mayor and City Council  
 
FROM: 
 
Troy Schaben, Assistant City Administrator - Utility  
 
DATE:  
June 9, 2020 
 
SUBJECT: 
Revise Municipal Code Section 3-103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Background:  Section 3-103 states:  
 
“Every person desiring a supply of water from the City shall make application to the 
Department of Utilities for the same. Each applicant shall have the water service installed 
by a licensed plumber, the cost of which shall be borne by the applicant. 
Not more than one (1) residence shall be supplied through one (1) meter, and each water 
service shall be provided with an outside accessible standard curb cock with box of a 
design approved by the Department of Utilities.” 
 
Allowing a single service to be split to serve multiple single family units may create issues 
where one residence may incur additional costs, residences may experience loss of 
pressure from sprinkler systems or pools, or issues arise from services needing to be fixed 
that are located on adjacent private property. 
 
Staff recommends revising Section 3-103 to: 
 
“Every person desiring a supply of water from the City shall make application to the 
Department of Utilities for the same. Each applicant shall have the water service installed 
by a licensed plumber, the cost of which shall be borne by the applicant. 
Not more than one (1) residence shall be supplied through one (1) meter, and each water 
service shall be provided with an outside accessible standard curb cock with box of a 
design approved by the Department of Utilities. Each attached single family dwelling unit 
must be provided with an individual connection to the main.  Splitting a single service 
connection to serve multiple individual single family units is not allowed” 
 
The UIB voted 5-0 to approve changes at the May 12, 2020 meeting. 
 
Fiscal Impact: None to the City. There will be additional costs to the homebuilder for 
multiple taps and lengths of service instead of one.  
Recommendation: Hold 1st Reading of Revisions to Municipal Code Section 3-103  
 
ORDINANCE NO. 5534 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FREMONT, NEBRASKA, REPEALING AND REPLACING 
CHAPTER 3, ARTICLE 1, SECTION 3-103 OF THE FREMONT MUNICIPAL CODE AND ALL 
OTHER ORDINANCES OR PARTY OF ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT WITH THIS 
ORDINANCE, PROVIDING WHEN THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BE IN FULL FORCE AND 
EFFECT.  
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FREMONT, 
NEBRASKA, THAT:  
 
 
SECTION 1: Chapter 3, Article 1, Sec. 3-103. – Municipal Water System; application for service; 
meter and service requirements generally; prorating monthly water bill. 
  
Every person desiring a supply of water from the City shall make application to the 
Department of Utilities for the same. Each applicant shall have the water service installed by a 
licensed plumber, the cost of which shall be borne by the applicant.  
Not more than one (1) residence shall be supplied through one (1) meter, and each water 
service shall be provided with an outside accessible standard curb cock with box of a design 
approved by the Department of Utilities. All fractions of a month shall be charged and 
considered as provided in section 3-118. No water will be furnished except through a meter 
furnished by the Department of Utilities. Each attached single family dwelling unit must be 
provided with an individual connection to the main.  Splitting a single service connection to 
serve multiple individual single family units is not allowed 
SECTION II.   REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.  That any other ordinances or 
parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.  
 
SECTION III.  EFFECTIVE DATE.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and 
after its passage, approval, and publication according to law.  This ordinance shall be published 
in pamphlet form on _________  ___, 2020 and distributed as a City Ordinance.  
 
 
 
 
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS ____ DAY OF____________, 2020: 
 
 
 
____________________________________  
Scott Getzschman, Mayor 
 
Attest: 
 
________________________________  
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk 
 
 
STAFF REPORT  
 
TO: 
 
Honorable Mayor and City Council 
 
FROM: 
 
Troy Schaben, Assistant City Administrator - Utility  
 
DATE:  
June 9, 2020 
 
SUBJECT: 
Revise Municipal Code Section 3-231 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Background:  Section 3-231 states:  
“A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building 
except:  
(1) Where one (1) building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no 
private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an 
adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front 
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one 
(1) building sewer, but the City does not and will not assume any obligation or 
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single 
connection aforementioned; or,  
(2) Where attached single family dwelling units are approved by the City Council 
per the requirements of City of Fremont Municipal Code, Chapter 11, one (1) 
building sewer may serve two (2) attached dwelling units provided the sewer is 
split to provide separate sewer services to each dwelling unit before the sewer 
enters the building.” 
 
Allowing a single service to be split to serve multiple residences creates a potential 
situation where one resident experiences service problems and incurs repair or jetting 
costs, while the other has no such problems.  
 
 
Staff recommends revising section 3-231 to: 
 
“A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building 
except:  
(1) Where one (1) building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no 
private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an 
adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front 
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one 
(1) building sewer, but the City does not and will not assume any obligation or 
Recommendation: Hold first reading for Revisions to Municipal Code Section 3-231  
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single 
connection aforementioned.  
(2) Where attached single family dwelling units are approved by the City Council per 
the requirements of City of Fremont Municipal Code, Chapter 11, one (1) building 
sewer must be provided for each attached dwelling units. Splitting services to 
multiple units is not allowed.” 
The UIB approved the revision 5-0 at the May 12, 2020 meeting. 
 
Fiscal Impact: None to the City. There will be additional wye/tee costs to the developer 
and additional cost to the homebuilder for multiple lengths of service instead of one.  
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 5535 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FREMONT, NEBRASKA, REPEALING AND REPLACING 
CHAPTER 3, ARTICLE 2, SECTION 3-231 OF THE FREMONT MUNICIPAL CODE AND ALL 
OTHER ORDINANCES OR PARTY OF ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT WITH THIS 
ORDINANCE, PROVIDING WHEN THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BE IN FULL FORCE AND 
EFFECT.  
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FREMONT, 
NEBRASKA, THAT:  
 
SECTION 1: Chapter 3, Article 2, Sec. 3-231. – Building sewer installation; single premise. 
  
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building except:  
1. Where one (1) building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private 
sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, 
court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to 
the rear building and the whole considered as one (1) building sewer, but the City does 
not and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or 
resulting from any such single connection aforementioned; or,  
2. Where attached single family dwelling units are approved by the City Council per the 
requirements of City of Fremont Municipal Code, Chapter 11, one (1) building sewer 
must be provided for each attached dwelling unit. Splitting services to multiple units is 
not allowed.  
 
SECTION II.   REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.  That any other ordinances or 
parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.  
 
SECTION III.  EFFECTIVE DATE.  This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and 
after its passage, approval, and publication according to law.  This ordinance shall be published 
in pamphlet form on _________  ___, 2020 and distributed as a City Ordinance.  
 
 
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS ____ DAY OF____________, 2020: 
 
 
 
____________________________________  
Scott Getzschman, Mayor 
 
 
Attest: 
 
________________________________  
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk 
STAFF REPORT 
  
TO:    
Honorable Mayor and City Council  
  
FROM:  
Jody Sanders, CPA, Director of Finance  
  
DATE: 
June 9, 2020 
  
SUBJECT:  Claims  
 
Recommendation:   Move to approve May 27 through June 9, 2020 claims, as well as 
subsequent claims due and payable before the next meeting of the City Council, and 
authorize checks to be drawn on the proper accounts.
Background:  Council will review claims via email June 5, 2020.  In addition, Staff is 
requesting approval by the Council to pay claims that will become due and payable (by 
virtue of contractual agreements or regulatory requirements) before the next City Council 
meeting.    
The amount due is not known as of this staff report, but the related vendors are listed 
below.  These approved claims will still be presented as claims at the next City Council 
meeting and included in the total requested by Council for approval.  
• Direct deposit of employee payroll on June 11 and 25, 2020, and related withholdings 
remitted to pension plans, federal and state tax withholdings, and garnishments.  
• Nebraska Department of Revenue – sales & lodging tax collected by the City at 
various facilities. 
• Health and dental claims paid by the City’s third-party administrator Blue Cross and 
Blue Shield, as well as Health care reinsurance premiums payable.  
• Life and Disability (ST & LT) premiums payable to Lincoln National Life Insurance Co. 
monthly  
• Workers compensation claims paid by the City’s third-party administrator Tri-Star. 
• Transmission and energy purchases payable to Southwest Power Pool.  
• Transmission and energy purchases payable to Omaha Public Power District.  
• Natural gas purchases from Northern Natural Gas/US Energy, BP, Cargill, Central 
Plains Energy Project (CPEP) and Public Energy Authority of Kentucky (PEAK). 
• Coal purchases from Navajo Transitional Energy Co., Cloud Peak Energy Resources, 
Peabody coal, and freight charges to Union Pacific.  
• Progress payments to Emerson Process Management under the contract for the 
SCADA project. 
• UPS weekly invoice for shipping costs, due within ten days or late fees are incurred. 
There are a limited number of agencies that debit the City’s bank account for credit card 
processing fees, kiosk fees, bank analysis fees and occasionally NSF fees from our 
Ambulance Billing contractor.  These are based on a fee schedule.  
   
Fiscal Impact:  
City/Governmental funds claims total  
$  1,007,922.16 
  
Utility funds claims total   
$  1,753,338.57 
  
Total of all claims  
$  2,761,260.73 
AJ
WITHDRAWAL
WITHDRAWAL
GROUP NO
VENDOR NAME
DATE
ACCOUNT NO
ITEM DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
3603
Simplifile
05/26/20
001-1003-415.20-33
REGISTER OF DEEDS FILING
12.00
  
3705
AUTHNET
06/02/20
001-2031-455.20-99
LIBRARY AUTHORIZATION
25.00
  
3671
TSYS MERCHANT SOLUTIONS
06/03/20
001-1003-415.20-99
CREDIT CARD FEES
268.23
3671
TSYS MERCHANT SOLUTIONS
06/03/20
001-1003-415.20-99
CREDIT CARD FEES
1,601.42
3671
TSYS MERCHANT SOLUTIONS
06/03/20
001-2029-451.20-99
CREDIT CARD FEES
40.86
3671
TSYS MERCHANT SOLUTIONS
06/03/20
001-2042-440.20-99
CREDIT CARD FEES
22.02
TOTAL EXPENDITURES
1,969.53
CITY OF FREMONT 
ELECTRONIC WITHDRAWAL LIST
FOR CITY COUNCIL MEETING: 6/09/20
M:\Accounts Payable\City\Electronic Withdrawal List\6-10-20 
May City attorney 
services
Roof replacement, 
cemetery shop
Heated sidewalk 
installation at 
Friendship center
Hauling fees for May
This is KENO grant to 
Fremont Rural 
firefighters.  FACF is 
holding that 
organization's funds.
PREPARED 05/26/2020  8:41:52                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST
PROGRAM: GM339L                                       REPORT PARAMETER SELECTIONS
EAL DESCRIPTION:  EAL: 05262020 ANDERSEND
PAYMENT TYPES
   Checks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Y
   EFTs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Y
   ePayables  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Y
VOUCHER SELECTION CRITERIA
   Voucher/discount due date  . . . . . . . . . . .  05/26/2020
   All banks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  A
REPORT SEQUENCE OPTIONS:
   Vendor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  X      One vendor per page? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . . .  N
   Bank/Vendor  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         One vendor per page? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . . .  N
   Fund/Dept/Div  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         Validate cash on hand? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . .  N
   Fund/Dept/Div/Element/Obj  . . . . . . . . . . .         Validate cash on hand? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . .  N
   Proj/Fund/Dept/Div/Elm/Obj . . . . . . . . . . .
 This report is by:  Vendor
   Process by bank code? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . . .  Y
   Print reports in vendor name sequence? (Y,N) . .  Y
   Calendar year for 1099 withholding . . . . . . .  2020
   Disbursement year/per  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2020/08
   Payment date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  05/26/2020
PREPARED 05/26/2020, 8:41:52                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE     1
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 05/26/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 05/26/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
   NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0004597    00   BP CANADA ENERGY MARKETING *WIRE*
21066526 APR'20
00 05/26/2020   057-8205-807.50-02
127,886.80
VENDOR TOTAL *
127,886.80
0003109    00   UPS
5E9752210
00 05/26/2020   051-5001-940.60-79  05/23/20 Serv Chrg Share
7.75
5E9752210
00 05/26/2020   051-5001-940.60-79  05/23/20 Serv Chrg Share
7.75
5E9752210
00 05/26/2020   051-5001-922.60-79  Digi Intl
10.61
5E9752210
00 05/26/2020   051-5001-940.60-79  City/Fire-Dive Rescue Int
15.39
5E9752210
00 05/26/2020   051-5105-502.60-79  PME Babbitt Bearings
22.71
5E9752210
00 05/26/2020   051-5105-502.60-79  Ohio Lumex Co
124.29
5E9752210
00 05/26/2020   053-6105-502.50-23  Water Samples
38.54
VENDOR TOTAL *
227.04
TOTAL EXPENDITURES ****
128,113.84
GRAND TOTAL ********************
128,113.84
Natural gas 
purchase
PREPARED 05/28/2020  7:41:20
EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST
PROGRAM: GM339L
REPORT PARAMETER SELECTIONS
EAL DESCRIPTION:  EAL: 05282020 ANDERSEND
PAYMENT TYPES
   Checks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Y
   EFTs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Y
   ePayables  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Y
VOUCHER SELECTION CRITERIA
   Voucher/discount due date  . . . . . . . . . . .  05/28/2020
   All banks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  A
REPORT SEQUENCE OPTIONS:
   Vendor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  X
One vendor per page? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . . .  N
   Bank/Vendor  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
One vendor per page? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . . .  N
   Fund/Dept/Div  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Validate cash on hand? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . .  N
   Fund/Dept/Div/Element/Obj  . . . . . . . . . . .
Validate cash on hand? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . .  N
   Proj/Fund/Dept/Div/Elm/Obj . . . . . . . . . . .
 This report is by:  Vendor
   Process by bank code? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . . .  Y
   Print reports in vendor name sequence? (Y,N) . .  Y
   Calendar year for 1099 withholding . . . . . . .  2020
   Disbursement year/per  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2020/08
   Payment date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  05/28/2020
PREPARED 05/28/2020, 7:41:20                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE     1
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 05/28/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 05/28/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
   NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0000584    00   CEI
20200528
PR0528
00 05/28/2020   051-0000-241.00-00  PAYROLL SUMMARY
EFT:
117,722.49
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
117,722.49
0001964    00   IBEW LOCAL UNION 1536
20200514
PR0514
00 05/28/2020   051-0000-241.00-00  PAYROLL SUMMARY
1,790.94
20200528
PR0528
00 05/28/2020   051-0000-241.00-00  PAYROLL SUMMARY
1,790.94
VENDOR TOTAL *
3,581.88
0004192    00   PAYROLL EFT DEDUCTIONS
20200528
PR0528
00 05/28/2020   051-0000-241.00-00  PAYROLL SUMMARY
170,413.69
VENDOR TOTAL *
170,413.69
EFT/EPAY TOTAL ***
117,722.49
TOTAL EXPENDITURES ****
173,995.57
117,722.49
GRAND TOTAL ********************
291,718.06
PREPARED 06/01/2020  9:24:12
EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST
PROGRAM: GM339L
REPORT PARAMETER SELECTIONS
EAL DESCRIPTION:  EAL: 06012020 ANDERSEND
PAYMENT TYPES
   Checks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Y
   EFTs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Y
   ePayables  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Y
VOUCHER SELECTION CRITERIA
   Voucher/discount due date  . . . . . . . . . . .  06/01/2020
   All banks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  A
REPORT SEQUENCE OPTIONS:
   Vendor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  X
One vendor per page? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . . .  N
   Bank/Vendor  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
One vendor per page? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . . .  N
   Fund/Dept/Div  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Validate cash on hand? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . .  N
   Fund/Dept/Div/Element/Obj  . . . . . . . . . . .
Validate cash on hand? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . .  N
   Proj/Fund/Dept/Div/Elm/Obj . . . . . . . . . . .
 This report is by:  Vendor
   Process by bank code? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . . .  Y
   Print reports in vendor name sequence? (Y,N) . .  Y
   Calendar year for 1099 withholding . . . . . . .  2020
   Disbursement year/per  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2020/09
   Payment date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  06/01/2020
PREPARED 06/01/2020, 9:24:12                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE     1
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/01/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/01/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
   NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0003109    00   UPS
5E9752220
00 06/01/2020   051-5001-940.60-79  05/30/20 Serv Chrg Share
7.75
5E9752220
00 06/01/2020   051-5001-940.60-79  05/30/20 Serv Chrg Share
7.75
5E9752220
00 06/01/2020   051-5001-940.60-79  Wesco International
12.88
5E9752220
00 06/01/2020   051-5105-502.60-79  Ohio Lumex Co
122.03
VENDOR TOTAL *
150.41
TOTAL EXPENDITURES ****
150.41
GRAND TOTAL ********************
150.41
AJ
WITHDRAWAL
WITHDRAWAL
GROUP NO
VENDOR NAME
DATE
ACCOUNT NO
ITEM DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
7259
SIMPLIFILE
06/02/20
051-5205-580-60-77
REGISTER OF DEEDS FILING
24.00
 
 
7259
SIMPLIFILE
06/02/20
051-5205-580-60-77
REGISTER OF DEEDS FILING
30.00
 
 
7248
TSYS MERCHANT SOLUTIONS
06/03/20
051-5001-903-60-77
CREDIT CARD FEES
1,965.36
            
7248
TSYS MERCHANT SOLUTIONS
06/03/20
051-5001-903-60-77
CREDIT CARD FEES
9,385.07
            
TOTAL EXPENDITURES
11,404.43
          
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
ELECTRONIC WITHDRAWAL LIST
FOR UTILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE BOARD MEETING: 6/9/20
M:\Accounts Payable\DU\DU Electronic Withdrawals\6-9-20
PREPARED 06/04/2020 10:47:10
EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST
PROGRAM: GM339L
REPORT PARAMETER SELECTIONS
EAL DESCRIPTION:  EAL: 06042020 ANDERSEND
PAYMENT TYPES
   Checks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Y
   EFTs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Y
   ePayables  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Y
VOUCHER SELECTION CRITERIA
   Voucher/discount due date  . . . . . . . . . . .  06/10/2020
   All banks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  A
REPORT SEQUENCE OPTIONS:
   Vendor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  X
One vendor per page? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . . .  N
   Bank/Vendor  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
One vendor per page? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . . .  N
   Fund/Dept/Div  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Validate cash on hand? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . .  N
   Fund/Dept/Div/Element/Obj  . . . . . . . . . . .
Validate cash on hand? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . .  N
   Proj/Fund/Dept/Div/Elm/Obj . . . . . . . . . . .
 This report is by:  Vendor
   Process by bank code? (Y,N)  . . . . . . . . . .  Y
   Print reports in vendor name sequence? (Y,N) . .  Y
   Calendar year for 1099 withholding . . . . . . .  2020
   Disbursement year/per  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2020/09
   Payment date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  06/10/2020
PREPARED 06/04/2020,10:47:10                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE     1
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/10/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/10/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
   NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0000959    00   ACE HARDWARE
118644/3
PI4160
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-35  PO NUM 052066
67.40
118832/3
PI4376
00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052066
6.41
VENDOR TOTAL *
73.81
0005273    00   AG SMART ENTERPRISES LLC
1241
PI4394
00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.50-52  PO NUM 053816
10,416.00
1241
PI4395
00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.60-61  PO NUM 053816
5,400.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
15,816.00
0003124    00   ALLIED ELECTRONICS INC
9012702030
PI4182
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053827
EFT:
418.53
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
418.53
0002612    00   ALTEC INDUSTRIES INC
11407325
PI4391
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-35  PO NUM 053769
182.49
11407325
PI4392
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.60-79  PO NUM 053769
12.84
11408523
PI4393
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-35  PO NUM 053771
487.40
VENDOR TOTAL *
682.73
9999999    00   ALVAREZ, JAIRO
000075939
UT
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-143.00-00  MANUAL CHECK
84.46
VENDOR TOTAL *
84.46
0003973    00   AMAZON CAPITAL SERVICES INC
1YXFNGXJ7LMR   PI4184        00 06/10/2020   051-5001-922.50-42  PO NUM 053862
EFT:
1,793.86
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
1,793.86
0004585    00   AMERICAN BROADBAND INTERNET
51262 0620
PI4385        00 06/10/2020   051-5001-922.50-53  PO NUM 052211
439.40
VENDOR TOTAL *
439.40
0004587    00   AMERICAN UNDERGROUND SUPPLY LLC
90259
PI4201        00 06/10/2020   053-6205-583.50-35  PO NUM 052132
7.45
VENDOR TOTAL *
7.45
0004891    00   APEX INSTRUMENTS INC
151776
PI4174
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053623
204.15
VENDOR TOTAL *
204.15
0005199    00   APX INC
11156
PI4360
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-61  PO NUM 053163
EFT:
182.29
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
182.29
0002869    00   AQUA-CHEM INC
00193383
PI4386
00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.50-52  PO NUM 052239
2,413.26
00193270
PI4175
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-52  PO NUM 053684
888.00
00193260
PI4176
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-52  PO NUM 053706
1,199.00
00193270
PI4177
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-52  PO NUM 053706
899.25
00193328
PI4290
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-52  PO NUM 053684
888.00
PREPARED 06/04/2020,10:47:10                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE     2
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/10/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/10/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
   NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0002869    00   AQUA-CHEM INC
00193328
PI4292
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-52  PO NUM 053706
408.75
VENDOR TOTAL *
6,696.26
0004904    00   ATLAS COPCO COMPRESSORS LLC
1120044019
PI3905
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053760
1,693.84
1120044019
PI3906
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-59  PO NUM 053760
1,625.00
1120044019
PI3907
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-79  PO NUM 053760
18.59
1120048021
PI4407
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053760
1,693.84-
1120048021
PI4408
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-59  PO NUM 053760
1,625.00-
1120048021
PI4409
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-79  PO NUM 053760
18.59-
1120048022
PI4410
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053760
1,644.96
1120048022
PI4411
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-59  PO NUM 053760
1,336.41
1120048022
PI4412
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-79  PO NUM 053760
18.06
VENDOR TOTAL *
2,999.43
0002531    00   BABCOCK & WILCOX COMPANY
BA60376358
PI4281
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053820
EFT:
575.40
BA60376590
PI4375
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053700
EFT:
2,543.39
BA60376440
PI4291
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-79  PO NUM 053700
EFT:
569.69
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
3,688.48
0004657    00   BGNE INC
PI0077877
PI4183
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-35  PO NUM 053849
255.13
VENDOR TOTAL *
255.13
0004558    00   BLT PLUMBING HEATING & A/C INC
20162
PI4402        00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052106
178.53
20162
PI4403        00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.60-59  PO NUM 052106
174.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
352.53
0003545    00   BOMGAARS SUPPLY INC
16534046
PI4161
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052068
64.19
16535554
PI4219
00 06/10/2020   053-6205-583.50-35  PO NUM 052068
21.38
VENDOR TOTAL *
85.57
0002902    00   BORDER STATES / KRIZ-DAVIS
920012536
PI4150
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053331
EFT:
26,341.67
919988381
PI4152
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053746
EFT:
55.73
919988380
PI4153
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053748
EFT:
419.11
920012538
PI4154
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053748
EFT:
2,655.63
919988384
PI4155
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053798
EFT:
681.06
919988383
PI4156
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053818
EFT:
48.87
920012537
PI4157
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053818
EFT:
148.51
920012539
PI4159
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053864
EFT:
95.68
920053218
PI4339
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053798
EFT:
575.13
920053217
PI4340
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053818
EFT:
173.27
919999805
PI4162
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-35  PO NUM 052078
EFT:
6.14
919999903
PI4163
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-35  PO NUM 052078
EFT:
7.31
919988382
PI4179
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-35  PO NUM 053800
EFT:
220.38
Undgerground 
cable
PREPARED 06/04/2020,10:47:10                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE     3
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/10/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/10/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
  NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0002902    00   BORDER STATES / KRIZ-DAVIS
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
31,428.49
0003982    00   BRIMHALL INDUSTRIAL INC
19968
PI4151
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053447
EFT:
10,242.65
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
10,242.65
9999999    00   BUSCHMEYER, RYLIE
000076957
UT
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-143.00-00  MANUAL CHECK
43.20
VENDOR TOTAL *
43.20
0004518    00   CAPPEL AUTO SUPPLY INC
2634-00-018594 PI4164
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-35  PO NUM 052100
135.42
2634-00-018741 PI4166
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-35  PO NUM 052100
202.79
2634-00-018873 PI4169
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-35  PO NUM 052100
95.98
2634-00-018922 PI4170
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-35  PO NUM 052100
133.34
2634-00-018488 PI4178
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-35  PO NUM 053792
371.68
2634-00-018647 PI4352
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-48  PO NUM 052100
158.36
2634-00-019129 PI4356
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-48  PO NUM 052100
79.23
2634-00-018791 PI4168
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-48  PO NUM 052100
92.97
2634-00-018691 PI4165
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-35  PO NUM 052100
221.07
2634-00-018742 PI4167
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-35  PO NUM 052100
9.63-
2634-00-019058 PI4355
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-48  PO NUM 052100
39.33
2634-00-019216 PI4357
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-48  PO NUM 052100
131.29
2634-00-019378 PI4285
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052100
211.81
2634-00-018920 PI4353
00 06/10/2020   057-8205-870.50-48  PO NUM 052100
26.16
2634-00-019015 PI4354
00 06/10/2020   057-8205-870.50-48  PO NUM 052100
108.75
VENDOR TOTAL *
1,998.55
0003817    00   CED AUTOMATION OMAHA
5411-605279    PI4180
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053821
583.44
5411-605819    PI4181
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053821
413.88
5411-604792    PI4293
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-61  PO NUM 053720
1,654.83
5411-606669    PI4328
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053822
1,741.20
VENDOR TOTAL *
4,393.35
0000584    00   CEI
JUN 20 WC
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-919.20-29  June 2020 Workers Comp
EFT:
31,250.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
31,250.00
0004615    00   CENTRAL PLAINS ENERGY PROJECT*WIRE*
052012A197
00 06/10/2020   057-8205-807.50-02  May 2020  CPEP3
16,871.75
052018A885
00 06/10/2020   057-8205-807.50-02  May'20   CPEP4
46,035.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
62,906.75
0002951    00   CENTRAL STATES GROUP
1396328-00
PI4158
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053860
45.99
1397369-00
PI4282
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053905
192.18
VENDOR TOTAL *
238.17
0002675    00   CENTURYLINK
Natural gas 
purchases
PREPARED 06/04/2020,10:47:10                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE     4
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/10/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/10/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
   NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0002675    00   CENTURYLINK
4027272600 0520PI4171
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-922.50-53  PO NUM 052104
142.45
4027272606 0520PI4172
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-922.50-53  PO NUM 052104
408.96
4027272654 0520PI4173
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-922.50-53  PO NUM 052104
55.66
VENDOR TOTAL *
607.07
0005031    00   CENTURYLINK - BUSINESS SERVICES
1491622148
PI4287        00 06/10/2020   051-5001-922.50-53  PO NUM 052212
254.34
VENDOR TOTAL *
254.34
0004152    00   CORE & MAIN LP
M263703
PI4336
00 06/10/2020   053-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053707
966.14
VENDOR TOTAL *
966.14
0001643    00   CULLIGAN OF OMAHA
977715
PI4405
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-95  PO NUM 052423
31.00
978313
PI4406
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.60-76  PO NUM 052423
26.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
57.00
9999999    00   DAUBERT CONSTRUCTION
000018535
UT
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-143.00-00  MANUAL CHECK
225.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
225.00
0001313    00   DILLON CHEVROLET FREMONT INC, SID
127693
PI4198        00 06/10/2020   053-6205-583.50-48  PO NUM 052072
43.93
VENDOR TOTAL *
43.93
0002880    00   DUNRITE INC
B731103
PI4195
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053857
192.62
VENDOR TOTAL *
192.62
0003091    00   DUTTON-LAINSON CO
816526-2
PI4185
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053287
EFT:
409.28
S14137-2
PI4187
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053438
EFT:
16,178.40
S14186-1
PI4279
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053463
EFT:
7,624.82
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
24,212.50
0004605    00   DXP ENTERPRISES INC
51400002
PI4193
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053805
EFT:
210.34
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
210.34
0003087    00   EAKES OFFICE SOLUTIONS
8031623-0
PI4196
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053865
177.89
8031623-0
PI4211
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-35  PO NUM 053865
51.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
228.89
0002959    00   EGAN SUPPLY CO
317032A
PI4388
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-35  PO NUM 053452
30.68
317872A
PI4389
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-35  PO NUM 053585
184.06
VENDOR TOTAL *
214.74
0004462    00   ELECTRICAL RELIABILITY SERVICES INC
PREPARED 06/04/2020,10:47:10                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE     5
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/10/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/10/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
   NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0004462    00   ELECTRICAL RELIABILITY SERVICES INC
51045174
PI4288        00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-59  PO NUM 052990
926.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
926.00
0005040    00   EMERSON PROCESS MANAGEMENT POWER &
9082260
PI4344
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.60-58  PO NUM 049403
EFT:
7,807.99
9082260
PI4345
00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.60-58  PO NUM 049403
EFT:
5,205.32
9082260
PI4346
00 06/10/2020   055-7205-583.60-58  PO NUM 049403
EFT:
15,000.00
9082260
PI4347
00 06/10/2020   057-8205-870.60-58  PO NUM 049403
EFT:
23,423.96
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
51,437.27
0002050    00   FASTENAL CO
NEFRE175209    PI4194
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053824
EFT:
537.06
NEFRE175285    PI4283
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-35  PO NUM 052073
EFT:
82.78
NEFRE175353    PI4220
00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052073
EFT:
21.01
NEFRE175209    PI4210
00 06/10/2020   053-6205-583.50-35  PO NUM 053824
EFT:
106.17
NEFRE175234    PI4199
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052073
EFT:
79.53
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
826.55
0001729    00   FCX PERFORMANCE INC
4572422
PI4192
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053785
1,220.64
4574536
PI4280
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053657
851.52
VENDOR TOTAL *
2,072.16
0004993    00   FIKES COMMERCIAL HYGIENE LLC
26010
PI4286        00 06/10/2020   051-5001-932.60-61  PO NUM 052107
EFT:
164.78
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
164.78
0004918    00   FLSMIDTH USA INC-TUCSON OPERATIONS
0299383
PI4190        00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053781
289.82
VENDOR TOTAL *
289.82
9999999    00   FORTNER, NATALIE A
000077565
UT
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-143.00-00  MANUAL CHECK
169.50
VENDOR TOTAL *
169.50
0004833    00   FREMONT AREA UNITED WAY
MAY'20 CARESHAR
00 06/10/2020   055-0000-242.02-00  May 2020 Care & Share
EFT:
757.50
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
757.50
0005215    00   G SQUARED LAWN CARE
1874
PI4387
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-43  PO NUM 052756
17,280.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
17,280.00
0005211    00   GE STEAM POWER INC
99411112
PI4188
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053486
EFT:
4,388.07
99411352
PI4206
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-79  PO NUM 053486
EFT:
334.15
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
4,722.22
0000247    00   GEXPRO
SCADA project 
progress 
payments
PREPARED 06/04/2020,10:47:10                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE     6
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/10/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/10/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
  NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0000247    00   GEXPRO
S127643693-001 PI4374
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053681
EFT:
2,323.29
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
2,323.29
9999999    00   GIBSON JR, WILLIAM R
000068513
UT
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-143.00-00  MANUAL CHECK
146.32
VENDOR TOTAL *
146.32
0001143    00   GLASS HOUSE
56597
PI4370
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053735
149.81
56597
PI4371
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-61  PO NUM 053735
124.20
VENDOR TOTAL *
274.01
0001742    00   GRAINGER
9539519133
PI4197
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053882
EFT:
223.28
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
223.28
0004707    00   GREAT PLAINS COMMUNICATIONS INC
9927040235 0520PI4203
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-922.50-53  PO NUM 052213
163.00
9927040235 0520PI4204
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-922.60-65  PO NUM 052213
1,000.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
1,163.00
9999999    00   GROSS, JOLENE A
000019531
UT
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-143.00-00  MANUAL CHECK
24.86
VENDOR TOTAL *
24.86
0004469    00   HAYES MECHANICAL
457118
PI4205
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-59  PO NUM 053215
1,239.15
457108
PI4208
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-61  PO NUM 053791
12,783.52
457109
PI4209
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-61  PO NUM 053791
2,054.50
VENDOR TOTAL *
16,077.17
0002794    00   HDR ENGINEERING INC
1200270691
PI4413
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.60-57  PO NUM 053194
EFT:
20,745.42
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
20,745.42
0000322    00   HERCULES INDUSTRIES INC
110557
PI4191
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053783
EFT:
1,234.80
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
1,234.80
9999999    00   HYBL, LEILA
000075205
UT
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-143.00-00  MANUAL CHECK
148.94
VENDOR TOTAL *
148.94
0004838    00   IML NORTH AMERICA LLC
15142
PI4399
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-35  PO NUM 053898
1,863.28
VENDOR TOTAL *
1,863.28
0003074    00   JACKSON SERVICES INC
20200514
PR0514
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-241.00-00  PAYROLL SUMMARY
EFT:
159.37
Engineering svc Sub H
PREPARED 06/04/2020,10:47:10                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE     7
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/10/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/10/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
   NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0003074    00   JACKSON SERVICES INC
20200528
PR0528
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-241.00-00  PAYROLL SUMMARY
EFT:
159.37
567 - 053120
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-46  May Mats
EFT:
71.07
567 - 053120
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.20-29  May Uniforms/Whse
EFT:
86.04
1110 - 053120
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-932.50-46  May Mats/Towels
EFT:
188.74
1110 - 053120
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-46  May Mats/Mops/Towels
EFT:
548.29
567 - 053120
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-46  May Mops
EFT:
66.36
567 - 053120
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.20-29  May Uniforms
EFT:
916.09
1110 - 053120
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-46  May Mats
EFT:
440.76
567 - 053120
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.20-29  May Uniforms/Elect Distr
EFT:
1,355.92
567 - 053120
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.20-29  May Uniforms/Engineers
EFT:
57.52
567 - 053120
00 06/10/2020   053-6205-583.20-29  May Uniforms
EFT:
307.08
567 - 053120
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.20-29  May Uniforms
EFT:
219.88
1110 - 053120
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-46  May Mats/Mops
EFT:
110.14
567 - 053120
00 06/10/2020   057-8205-870.20-29  May Uniforms
EFT:
744.08
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
5,430.71
0004205    00   JCI INDUSTRIES INC
8195645
PI4189
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053777
85.25
8195881
PI4337
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053777
11,193.56
8195965
PI4338
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053777
193.57
VENDOR TOTAL *
11,472.38
0000614    00   JERRY'S ELECTRIC INC
L05-019-2020   PI4202
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.60-61  PO NUM 052177
12.50
VENDOR TOTAL *
12.50
0001485    00   JOHN DAY COMPANY
1591617-00
PI4217
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053883
EFT:
148.49
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
148.49
0004550    00   JOHNSON'S CYCLE AND AUTO LLC
130562
PI4306        00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053917
41.97
VENDOR TOTAL *
41.97
0003085    00   KELLY SUPPLY CO
S11128373-1    PI4186
00 06/10/2020   057-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053433
EFT:
39.17
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
39.17
0004708    00   KIMBALL MIDWEST
7972205
PI4400
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-35  PO NUM 053915
190.26
VENDOR TOTAL *
190.26
9999999    00   KONTOR, KEAN J
000079059
UT
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-143.00-00  MANUAL CHECK
129.76
VENDOR TOTAL *
129.76
0002654    00   LEAGUE ASSN OF RISK MANAGEMENT
14118
PI4212        00 06/10/2020   051-5001-919.60-63  PO NUM 053897
255.85
VENDOR TOTAL *
255.85
0004541    00   LIBERTY PROCESS EQUIPMENT INC
PREPARED 06/04/2020,10:47:10                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE     8
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/10/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/10/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
   NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0004541    00   LIBERTY PROCESS EQUIPMENT INC
0082728-IN
PI4207        00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053773
994.10
VENDOR TOTAL *
994.10
0002945    00   LYMAN RICHEY SAND & GRAVEL
143592
PI4200        00 06/10/2020   053-6205-583.50-35  PO NUM 052081
32.01
149051
PI4378        00 06/10/2020   053-6205-583.50-35  PO NUM 052081
93.86
VENDOR TOTAL *
125.87
0000480    00   MALLOY ELECTRIC
6298757
PI4294
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-59  PO NUM 053812
850.00
6298757
PI4295
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-61  PO NUM 053812
440.00
6298757
PI4296
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-79  PO NUM 053812
126.53
6298758
PI4297
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-59  PO NUM 053812
388.66
6298759
PI4298
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-59  PO NUM 053812
388.66
6298760
PI4299
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-59  PO NUM 053812
388.66
VENDOR TOTAL *
2,582.51
0002972    00   MARK HYDRAULIC CO INC
5123732
PI4213
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053765
146.64
VENDOR TOTAL *
146.64
0005272    00   MARV'S TREE SERVICE
05182020
PI4242
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.60-61  PO NUM 053891
250.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
250.00
0002052    00   MATHESON LINWELD
21711088
PI4233
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052499
EFT:
364.98
21737017
PI4358
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052499
EFT:
364.98
51650478
PI4359
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-76  PO NUM 052499
EFT:
72.97
51643000
PI4377
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-76  PO NUM 052080
EFT:
137.64
21701215
PI4221
00 06/10/2020   057-8205-870.50-35  PO NUM 052080
EFT:
135.68
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
1,076.25
0000667    00   MCMASTER-CARR SUPPLY CO
39446521
PI4237
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053817
152.63
VENDOR TOTAL *
152.63
0005201    00   MEDEXPRESS URGENT CARE NEBRASKA INC
1524398C3908   PI4229        00 06/10/2020   051-5001-926.60-61  PO NUM 052113
252.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
252.00
0002153    00   MEGGER INC
5590594594
PI4289
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-59  PO NUM 053506
1,607.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
1,607.00
0001229    00   MENARDS - FREMONT
92583
PI4222
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-35  PO NUM 052083
44.75
92864
PI4224
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-35  PO NUM 052083
13.89
92640
PI4223
00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052083
95.24
PREPARED 06/04/2020,10:47:10                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE     9
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/10/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/10/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
   NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0001229    00   MENARDS - FREMONT
92898
PI4284
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052083
24.24
VENDOR TOTAL *
178.12
0004442    00   MID-IOWA SOLID WASTE EQUIPMENT CO
52076
PI4301        00 06/10/2020   055-7205-583.50-35  PO NUM 053872
800.00
52076
PI4302        00 06/10/2020   055-7205-583.60-79  PO NUM 053872
72.30
VENDOR TOTAL *
872.30
0002960    00   MIDLAND SCIENTIFIC INC
6095641
PI4300
00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053846
353.10
6098114
PI4396
00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053846
353.10
6098124
PI4397
00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053846
1,084.98
6098131
PI4303
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053895
274.42
VENDOR TOTAL *
2,065.60
0004883    00   MISSISSIPPI LIME COMPANY
1491610
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-158.02-00  5/21/20  26.01 TN
EFT:
5,241.69
1492140
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-158.02-00  5/26/20  26.02 TN
EFT:
5,243.70
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
10,485.39
0004965    00   MJN MACHINE
2459
PI4334
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053893
620.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
620.00
0001486    00   MOTION INDUSTRIES INC
NE01-536668    PI4214
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053789
2,762.32
VENDOR TOTAL *
2,762.32
0002985    00   MSC INDUSTRIAL SUPPLY CO INC
52111852
PI4215
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053847
EFT:
148.43
52246182
PI4216
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053850
EFT:
442.34
54169732
PI4309
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-153.00-00  PO NUM 053844
EFT:
865.42
53366302
PI4310
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053866
EFT:
322.67
53585422
PI4311
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053866
EFT:
49.31
54800862
PI4312
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053908
EFT:
526.40
54429782
PI4342
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053907
EFT:
763.87
54800872
PI4343
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053908
EFT:
276.57
52389282
PI4236
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053806
EFT:
12.84
54042072
PI4332
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053879
EFT:
382.75
54042082
PI4333
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053879
EFT:
73.03
54890632
PI4373
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053911
EFT:
585.88
52626562
PI4241
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-35  PO NUM 053853
EFT:
291.04
53438762
PI4329
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053835
EFT:
680.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
5,420.55
0003057    00   NEBR DEPT OF ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY
29530
PI4414        00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-77  PO NUM 053930
75,137.40
VENDOR TOTAL *
75,137.40
0001958    00   NEBR PUBLIC HEALTH ENVIRONMENTAL
WAPA hydro 
power purchase
PREPARED 06/04/2020,10:47:10                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE    10
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/10/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/10/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
   NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0001958    00   NEBR PUBLIC HEALTH ENVIRONMENTAL
526941
PI4232        00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.60-54  PO NUM 052242
EFT:
625.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
625.00
0001473    00   NMC INC
CUI799606
PI4367
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-48  PO NUM 053696
122.32
CUI799606
PI4368
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.60-79  PO NUM 053696
11.45
CUI800797
PI4369
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-48  PO NUM 053696
115.95
CUI800794
PI4390
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-48  PO NUM 053696
116.14
VENDOR TOTAL *
365.86
0004151    00   NORTH AMERICAN ELECTRIC RELIABILITY
25721
PI4218        00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-61  PO NUM 051832
EFT:
5,660.77
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
5,660.77
0003136    00   NORTHERN NATURAL GAS CO *FNB WIRE*
1038 MAY 2020
00 06/10/2020   057-8205-807.50-02
102,949.17
VENDOR TOTAL *
102,949.17
0002937    00   O'KEEFE ELEVATOR CO INC
00511291
PI4230
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-932.60-65  PO NUM 052166
197.05
00511291
PI4231
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-65  PO NUM 052166
1,116.63
VENDOR TOTAL *
1,313.68
0001020    00   O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE INC
0397-322929    PI4227
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-35  PO NUM 052085
43.42
0397-323719    PI4348
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-48  PO NUM 052085
69.25
0397-325110    PI4350
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-48  PO NUM 052085
96.27
0397-320922    PI4225
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052085
125.36
0397-325870    PI4379
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052085
31.04
0397-325251    PI4351
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-48  PO NUM 052085
78.89
0397-322948    PI4240
00 06/10/2020   053-6205-583.50-48  PO NUM 053848
455.29
0397-325109    PI4349
00 06/10/2020   053-6205-583.50-48  PO NUM 052085
216.87
0397-322889    PI4226
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052085
255.89
0397-322943    PI4228
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052085
40.00-
VENDOR TOTAL *
1,332.28
0002888    00   OFFICENET
940053-0
PI4234
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-903.50-40  PO NUM 053802
129.58
940057-0
PI4235
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-903.50-40  PO NUM 053803
78.17
940287-0
PI4238
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-40  PO NUM 053840
334.59
940287-0
PI4239
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-61  PO NUM 053840
11.75
940604-0
PI4372
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-40  PO NUM 053880
161.62
VENDOR TOTAL *
715.71
0004910    00   OHIO LUMEX CO INC
COF050820T
PI4316
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052204
417.50
VENDOR TOTAL *
417.50
0004671    00   ONE CALL CONCEPTS INC
Natural gas 
purchase
PREPARED 06/04/2020,10:47:10                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE    11
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/10/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/10/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
  NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0004671    00   ONE CALL CONCEPTS INC
0050134
PI4404
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.60-61  PO NUM 052199
415.58
VENDOR TOTAL *
415.58
0004948    00   PCM SALES INC
B13795560101   PI4308
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-159.00-00  PO NUM 053843
479.70
VENDOR TOTAL *
479.70
0003827    00   PEST PRO'S INC
MNCP BLD 052620PI4318
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-932.60-61  PO NUM 052414
42.80
ASH PD 052620  PI4321
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-61  PO NUM 052429
48.15
CMBT TUR 052620PI4322
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-61  PO NUM 052429
53.50
PWR PLT 052620 PI4323
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-61  PO NUM 052429
85.60
UTIL BLD 052620PI4324
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 052429
69.55
SUB STA 052620 PI4314
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.60-61  PO NUM 052198
190.35
SUBST BI 052620PI4315
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.60-61  PO NUM 052198
126.90
WTR PLT 052620 PI4317
00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.60-61  PO NUM 052243
69.55
WWTP 052720    PI4319
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.60-61  PO NUM 052422
110.00
WWTP BI 052720 PI4320
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.60-61  PO NUM 052422
180.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
976.40
0004800    00   PINNACLE BANK - VISA
SANDERS J 2020 PI4335
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-920.60-62  PO NUM 053913
455.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
455.00
0001627    00   PIPING RESOURCES INC
0615504-IN
PI4331
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053878
EFT:
789.61
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
789.61
0002793    00   PLIBRICO COMPANY LLC
103156
PI4251
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-932.60-61  PO NUM 051036
4,463.75
103699
PI4258
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-932.50-35  PO NUM 052669
3,288.41
103886
PI4259
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-932.50-35  PO NUM 052669
2,209.25
104051
PI4260
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-932.50-35  PO NUM 052669
1,553.15
VENDOR TOTAL *
11,514.56
9999999    00   POLLARD, JOSEPH R
000067957
UT
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-143.00-00  MANUAL CHECK
448.60
VENDOR TOTAL *
448.60
0003566    00   POLYDYNE INC
1453947
PI4244
00 06/10/2020   055-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053761
EFT:
16,668.08
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
16,668.08
9999999    00   POPPINGO, SAMANTHA R
000080465
UT
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-143.00-00  MANUAL CHECK
25.79
VENDOR TOTAL *
25.79
0004696    00   PRIME COMMUNICATIONS INC
60272
PI4263
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-35  PO NUM 053636
1,669.17
PREPARED 06/04/2020,10:47:10                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE    12
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/10/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/10/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
  NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0004696    00   PRIME COMMUNICATIONS INC
60272
PI4264
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.60-61  PO NUM 053636
731.19
VENDOR TOTAL *
2,400.36
0001629    00   PROCESS MEASUREMENT COMPANY
NE26353-IN
PI4262        00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053514
321.46
VENDOR TOTAL *
321.46
0004413    00   RADWELL INTERNATIONAL INC
31395372
PI4267
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.60-59  PO NUM 053778
444.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
444.00
0004168    00   RAILROAD MANAGEMENT CO III LLC
418851
PI4255        00 06/10/2020   055-7205-583.60-77  PO NUM 052313
813.06
VENDOR TOTAL *
813.06
0005035    00   RAILWORKS TRACK SYSTEMS INC
183555
PI4401        00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-58  PO NUM 053929
158,770.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
158,770.00
0002876    00   RAWHIDE CHEMOIL INC
18974
PI4269
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-30  PO NUM 053842
10,248.17
VENDOR TOTAL *
10,248.17
0004939    00   RESCO
785849-00
PI4248
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053797
2,311.20
786771-00
PI4250
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053856
321.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
2,632.20
0003790    00   RIEKES EQUIPMENT CO
PWO040693-1    PI4261
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.60-59  PO NUM 053355
EFT:
864.00
SWO044469-1    PI4271
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053887
EFT:
1,673.94
SWO044469-1    PI4272
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.60-61  PO NUM 053887
EFT:
1,430.00
SWO044469-1    PI4273
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.60-79  PO NUM 053887
EFT:
77.50
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
4,045.44
0005142    00   S & S LOCKSMITH CO
3403
PI4274
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-932.50-35  PO NUM 053892
331.00
3403
PI4275
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-932.60-61  PO NUM 053892
95.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
426.00
0005128    00   SCHLOSSER ENTERPRISES INC
CLIP11945
PI4361
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-932.60-61  PO NUM 053492
EFT:
90.00
CLIP11945
PI4362
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.60-61  PO NUM 053492
EFT:
40.00
CLIP11945
PI4363
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-61  PO NUM 053492
EFT:
130.00
CLIP11945
PI4364
00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.60-61  PO NUM 053492
EFT:
170.00
CLIP11945
PI4365
00 06/10/2020   055-7205-583.60-61  PO NUM 053492
EFT:
105.00
CLIP11945
PI4366
00 06/10/2020   057-8205-870.60-61  PO NUM 053492
EFT:
20.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
555.00
0004661    00   SCREENING ONE INC
Progress payment 
on rail tracks at 
LDW Power Plant
PREPARED 06/04/2020,10:47:10                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE    13
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/10/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/10/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
  NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0004661    00   SCREENING ONE INC
200400471
PI4254
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-926.60-61  PO NUM 052096
201.62
VENDOR TOTAL *
201.62
0005138    00   SERGEANT LABORATORIES INC
050820-V
PI4270
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-922.60-65  PO NUM 053859
9,391.72
VENDOR TOTAL *
9,391.72
0001308    00   SHERWIN-WILLIAMS CO
6806-8
PI4245
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053784
239.47
VENDOR TOTAL *
239.47
0004773    00   SOUTHERNCARLSON INC
OM41386683
PI4398
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053894
5,649.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
5,649.00
0004760    00   SOUTHWEST POWER POOL INC
TRN20200531FREM
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-555.50-00  May 2020 Transmission
EFT:
43,806.41
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
43,806.41
0003923    00   STATE OF NEBRASKA - CELLULAR
1220665
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-903.50-53  Cellular & Lang Line Serv
EFT:
76.40
1220665
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-919.50-53  Cellular
EFT:
46.31
1220665
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-922.50-53  Cellular
EFT:
92.73
1220665
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-925.50-53  Cellular
EFT:
46.31
1220665
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-926.50-53  Cellular
EFT:
46.31
1220665
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-919.50-53  City/Police-Language Line
EFT:
38.50
1220665
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-53  Cellular
EFT:
150.23
1220665
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-53  Engineers Cellular
EFT:
185.24
1220665
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-53  Elect Distr Cellular
EFT:
335.72
1220665
00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.50-53  Cellular
EFT:
46.31
1220665
00 06/10/2020   053-6205-583.50-53  Cellular
EFT:
180.68
1220665
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-53  Cellular
EFT:
23.21
1220665
00 06/10/2020   057-8205-870.50-53  Cellular
EFT:
290.32
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
1,558.27
0001137    00   STEFFY CHRYSLER CENTER INC, GENE
6134205
PI4304        00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-48  PO NUM 053906
155.10
6134205
PI4305        00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.60-59  PO NUM 053906
212.50
VENDOR TOTAL *
367.60
0004647    00   T SQUARE SUPPLY LLC
27481
PI4252
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-30  PO NUM 052091
22.00
27501
PI4253
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-30  PO NUM 052091
44.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
66.00
0004344    00   THIELSCH ENGINEERING INC
215847
PI4256
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.60-59  PO NUM 052597
4,000.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
4,000.00
0001339    00   TIMME WELDING & SUPPLY LLC
PREPARED 06/04/2020,10:47:10                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE    14
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/10/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/10/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
   NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0001339    00   TIMME WELDING & SUPPLY LLC
41924
PI4276        00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-35  PO NUM 053896
267.50
VENDOR TOTAL *
267.50
0004552    00   TITAN MACHINERY INC
13991810
PI4265
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.50-48  PO NUM 053718
EFT:
976.93
13991810
PI4266
00 06/10/2020   051-5205-580.60-79  PO NUM 053718
EFT:
158.25
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
1,135.18
0000525    00   UTILITY EQUIPMENT CO
40057597-000   PI4268
00 06/10/2020   053-6205-583.60-61  PO NUM 053833
700.00
40057558-000   PI4327
00 06/10/2020   053-6205-583.60-61  PO NUM 053709
400.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
1,100.00
0004172    00   UTILITY SAFETY AND DESIGN INC
IN20201646
PI4313        00 06/10/2020   057-8205-870.60-61  PO NUM 046013
125.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
125.00
9999999    00   VOLKMER, AMANDA J
000073429
UT
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-143.00-00  MANUAL CHECK
18.38
VENDOR TOTAL *
18.38
0003064    00   VOSS LIGHTING
11109046-00    PI4307
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053795
187.98
VENDOR TOTAL *
187.98
0002907    00   WALNUT RADIO LLC  (KHUB)
20050279
PI4384
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-903.60-78  PO NUM 052205
234.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
234.00
0002894    00   WASTE CONNECTIONS OF NE INC
5591717
PI4380
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-932.50-49  PO NUM 052165
241.14
5591717
PI4381
00 06/10/2020   051-5001-940.50-49  PO NUM 052165
503.00
5591717
PI4382
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-49  PO NUM 052165
285.71
5591717
PI4383
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-49  PO NUM 052165
1,030.91
VENDOR TOTAL *
2,060.76
0004336    00   WATERLINK INC
27820
PI4325
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-52  PO NUM 052845
992.38
27820
PI4326
00 06/10/2020   051-5105-502.50-52  PO NUM 052845
2,061.97
VENDOR TOTAL *
3,054.35
0000482    00   WESCO RECEIVABLES CORP
482862
PI4243
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-159.00-00  PO NUM 053676
EFT:
1,202.08
481362
PI4246
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053794
EFT:
674.10
484410
PI4247
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053796
EFT:
7.12
484411
PI4249
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053855
EFT:
813.20
487389
PI4341
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-154.00-00  PO NUM 053870
EFT:
701.92
VENDOR TOTAL *
.00
3,398.42
0004342    00   WIESE PLUMBING & EXCAVATING INC
PREPARED 06/04/2020,10:47:10                           EXPENDITURE APPROVAL LIST                                          PAGE    15
PROGRAM: GM339L                                            AS OF: 06/10/2020   PAYMENT DATE: 06/10/2020
DEPARTMENT OF UTILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEND NO   SEQ#  VENDOR NAME
EFT, EPAY OR
 INVOICE
VOUCHER P.O.   BNK CHECK/DUE    ACCOUNT
ITEM
CHECK
HAND-ISSUED
   NO
NO   NO
DATE
NO
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
AMOUNT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0004342    00   WIESE PLUMBING & EXCAVATING INC
12628
PI4277        00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053902
61.59
12628
PI4278        00 06/10/2020   053-6105-502.60-61  PO NUM 053902
78.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
139.59
0003818    00   WILLCO INC
9833
PI4330
00 06/10/2020   055-7105-502.50-35  PO NUM 053858
249.00
VENDOR TOTAL *
249.00
9999999    00   WITTMAYER,CLAYTON A
000078911
UT
00 06/10/2020   051-0000-143.00-00  MANUAL CHECK
80.15
VENDOR TOTAL *
80.15
EFT/EPAY TOTAL ***
286,704.99
TOTAL EXPENDITURES ****
565,248.14
286,704.99
GRAND TOTAL ********************
851,953.13
 
 
 
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
 
TO: 
 
Honorable Mayor and City Council 
 
FROM: 
Jody Sanders, CPA, Director of Finance 
 
DATE: 
June 9, 2020 
 
SUBJECT: Report of Treasury 
 
Recommendation:   Move to receive Report of the Treasury 
 
 
Background:  This statement reports the bank account balances at the end of the prior 
month, and is available by the first council meeting of each month so it gives the Council 
up-to-the- month timely information regarding cash reserve balances. 
 
More detailed information regarding the CD and CDAR investments are available on the 
City’s website under Government. 
 
Fiscal Impact:  As noted in the report.  The City’s total increased $3,635,000 from April 
balances, which is reasonable with the property tax payment received from the County’s 
April collections of $2,123,000.  The Utility total decreased by $1,164,000, as project 
payments continue at the wastewater treatment plant. 
 
Please note at the bottom of the second page that the City has several CDARs 
investments.  The Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service (CDARS) is a 
program that allows the public to spread money around various banks. The purpose 
of CDARS is to help people who invest in certificate of deposits (CDs) to stay below the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance limits at any given bank.  
These are listed separately, as they are exclusively insured separate and apart from 
FDIC coverage provided at each bank.  These investment amounts are not included in 
the totals on the worksheet. 
 
City of Fremont
Report of Treasury - Cash and Investment Bank Balances
May 31, 2020
First National 
Bank - Fremont 
First State 
Bank
Pinnacle Bank 
of Fremont
Cornerstone 
Bank, 
Columbus
NE Land 
National 
Bank, North 
Platte
Nebraska 
Public 
Investment 
Trust
Account Name
Governmental
Checking/Money Market
City Treasurer
12,394,359
$     
City Treasurer-M Mkt
1,559,358
$       
SID #4
61,290
$           
Special Revenue
487,244
$        
Infrastructure - Sales Tax
4,320
$              
 Insured M MKT ** -Sales Tax
7,438,093
$     
Public Safety - Sales Tax
945,850
$          
Streets - Sales Tax
227,562
$          
Streets - M Mkt
418,812
$        
Community Devlopment Agy
1,498,288
$       
Keno
367,056
$        
CDBG Clearing
23,385
$           
CDBG Program Income
73,854
$           
E911
241,647
$         
Drug Task
32,345
$           
Employee Benefits
2,844,823
$     
Total Checking/Money Market
15,884,526
$     
7,925,337
$     
3,630,691
$     
-
$              
-
$               
1,177,732
$       
CD Investments
General fund
250,000
$         
7,500,000
$     
200,000
$      
Sales Tax/Infrastructure fund
Sales Tax/Streets fund
Sales Tax/LB840 fund
3,000,000
$     
Street fund
1,000,000
$       
-
$               
3,100,000
$     
KENO fund
200,000
$        
Trust Fund
100,000
$         
60,000
$          
E911
150,000
$        
150,000
$      
Special assessment Fund
750,000
$        
Employee Benefits
1,000,000
$       
-
$               
1,000,000
$    
Work Comp
750,000
$         
-
$               
Total CD Investments
3,100,000
$       
-
$               
14,760,000
$   
1,350,000
$    
-
$               
-
$                  
Total Governmental deposits
18,984,526
$     
7,925,337
$     
18,390,691
$   
1,350,000
$    
-
$               
1,177,732
$       
Grand total
47,828,286
$     
Statement ending balances
City of Fremont
Report of Treasury - Cash and Investment Bank Balances
May 31, 2020
First National 
Bank - Fremont 
First State 
Bank
Pinnacle Bank 
of Fremont
Cornerstone 
Bank, 
Columbus
NE Land 
National 
Bank, North 
Platte
Nebraska 
Public 
Investment 
Trust
Account Name
Statement ending balances
Proprietary Funds
Checking/Money Market
Combined Utilities Fund
13,745,643
$     
Electric Fund
607
$                
Comb Util Funds/Construction
7,000,528
$       
Electric Funds
2,033,887
$       
Water Project Bond Acct
80,576
$           
Department of Utilities
678,312
$        
Sewer Improvement
3,391
$             
Sewer Funds
315,717
$          
Gas Fund
760,549
$          
Electric Fund
150
$             
Total Checking/Money Market
20,830,745
$     
-
$               
678,312
$        
150
$             
-
$               
3,110,153
$       
CD Investments
Electric
750,000
$         
2,000,000
$     
8,996,000
$     
4,500,000
$    
Water
175,000
$         
500,000
$        
200,000
$      
Sewer
250,000
$        
Gas
1,000,000
$     
Total CD Investments
925,000
$         
2,000,000
$     
10,746,000
$   
4,700,000
$    
-
$               
-
$                  
Total Proprietary deposits
21,755,745
$     
2,000,000
$     
11,424,312
$   
4,700,150
$    
-
$               
3,110,153
$       
Grand total
42,990,359
$     
Grand total, all funds
40,740,271
$     
9,925,337
$     
29,815,002
$   
6,050,150
$    
-
$               
4,287,885
$       
Grand total
90,818,645
$     
CITY CDARS CERTIFICATES
750,000
$      
3,225,000
$       
DU CDARS CERTIFICATES
-
$                 
-
$               
2,900,000
$    
-
$               
2,600,000
$       
 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY & REGULAR CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES 
May 26, 2020 - 7:00 PM 
City Council Chambers 400 East Military, Fremont NE 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY AGENDA 
7:00 PM 
MEETING CALLED TO ORDER 
 
After the Pledge of Allegiance, Mayor Getzschman called the Community Development Agency to 
order and stated that a copy of the open meeting law is posted continually for public inspection 
located near the entrance door by the agendas. 
 
ROLL CALL 
 
Roll call showed members McClain, Ellis, Kuhns, Bechtel, Yerger, Jensen, Jacobus and Legband 
present. 8 members present. 
 
1. Resolution 2020-006 to approve amendment to the South Fremont Industrial 
Redevelopment Plan and third amendment to the amended and restated Redevelopment 
Agreement. Motion made by Jacobus, seconded by Kuhns to approve Resolution 2020-006. 
Voting Yea: McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus Voting Nay: Yerger, Ellis. 
Motion carried. 
 
PUBLIC HEARING 
 
2. 
Resolution 2020-007 to approve Request for Amendment to the Redevelopment District 
#3 Redevelopment Plan for the DPA Auctions Redevelopment Project. Mayor 
Getzschman opened the public hearing. Mayor Getzschman closed the public hearing 
after receiving comments from the public. Motion made by Jensen, seconded by Legband 
to approve Resolution 2020-007. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, McClain, Jensen, Legband, 
Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Motion made by Jensen, seconded by McClain to adjourn; time: 7:36 p.m. Voting Yea: Yerger, 
Ellis, McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. 
 
CITY COUNCIL REGULAR MEETING AGENDA 
MEETING CALLED TO ORDER 
Mayor Getzschman called the City Council Meeting to order and stated that a copy of the open 
meeting law is posted continually for public inspection located near the entrance door by the 
agendas. 
ROLL CALL 
Roll call showed Council Members McClain, Ellis, Kuhns, Bechtel, Yerger, Jensen, Jacobus and 
Legband present. 8 Council Members present. 
MAYOR COMMENTS 
(There will be no discussion from the Council or the public regarding comments made by the 
Mayor. Should anyone have questions regarding the comments, please contact the Mayor after the 
meeting) 
Motion to adopt current agenda for May 26, 2020 Regular Meeting. Motion made by Jacobus, 
seconded by Jensen to move item #24 to before item #10, and item #13 in front of item #12. Voting 
Yea: Ellis, McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus Voting Nay: Yerger. Motion 
carried. 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
 
2. 
Resolution 2020-100 authorizing the issuance of a conditional use permit for property 
located at 1249 E. 23rd street for the purposes of expanding a nonstandard use into a 
required yard. Mayor Getzschman opened the public hearing. Mayor Getzschman closed 
the public hearing after receiving comments from the public. Motion made by Yerger, 
seconded by Legband to approve Resolution 2020-100. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, 
McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. 
 
3. 
Resolution 2020-102 to approve request for amendment to the Redevelopment District #3 
Redevelopment Plan for the DPA Auctions Redevelopment Project. Mayor Getzschman 
opened the public hearing. Mayor Getzschman closed the public hearing after receiving 
comments from the public. Motion made by Legband, seconded by Jacobus to approve 
Resolution 2020-102. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, 
Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. 
 
4. 
Resolution 2020-099 authorizing the issuance of a conditional use permit for public 
assembly (church) in a LI, Light Industrial District on property generally located at 2407 
Colorado Avenue. Mayor Getzschman opened the public hearing. Mayor Getzschman 
closed the public hearing after receiving comments from the public. Motion made by 
Yerger, seconded by Legband to approve Resolution 2020-099. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, 
McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. 
 
CONSENT AGENDA: All items in the consent agenda are considered to be routine by the City 
Council and will be enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items 
unless a Council Member or a citizen so requests, in which event the item will be removed from the 
consent agenda and considered separately. 
 
Motion by Jensen, seconded by Legband to approve consent agenda items 5 & 8. Voting Yea: 
McClain, Ellis, Kuhns, Bechtel, Yerger, Jensen, Jacobus, Legband. Motion carried. 
 
5. 
Motion to approve May 12, 2020 through May 26, 2020 claims and authorize checks to be 
drawn on the proper accounts 
 
6. 
Dispense with and approve May 12, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes. Motion made by 
Jacobus, seconded by Yerger to continue the May 12, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes; 
the motion was rescinded by Jacobus and Yerger. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, McClain, 
Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. Motion made by Jacobus, 
seconded by Yerger to amend paragraph 16 of the May 12, 2020 Minutes to show that a 
motion and second were made, a vote was taken, the result being 7-1 with the Nay vote 
being Bechtel and the Ordinance being approved. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, McClain, 
Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. Motion made by Jensen, 
seconded by Jacobus to approve the May 12, 2020 Minutes as amended. Voting Yea: 
Yerger, Ellis, McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. 
 
7. 
Resolution 2020-104 approving the use of Christensen Field and the Fremont Municipal 
Airport for a community fireworks display. Motion made by Yerger, seconded by Jacobus 
to amend the resolution to provide that COVID-19 restrictions if applicable will apply to this 
event. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. 
Motion carried. Motion made by Jacobus, seconded by Jensen to approve Resolution 
2020-104 as amended. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, 
Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. 
 
8. 
Resolution 2020-105 awarding bid to MH Equipment Company for a Hyster J40XNT forklift 
 
9. 
Resolution 2020-115 Regarding the Risk of Exposure to COVID-19 Through the Use of 
Municipal Property for Youth Baseball and Softball. Motion made by Yerger, seconded by 
Legband to amend the resolution to be conditioned upon further review of legal counsel 
related to the COVID-19 conditions, and change dates from May 11, 2020 to May 22, 
2020 throughout the resolution. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, McClain, Jensen, Legband, 
Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. motion carried. Motion made by Jensen, seconded by Legband 
to approve Resolution 2020-115 as amended. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, McClain, Jensen, 
Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. motion carried. 
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS: Requires individual associated action 
 
24. 
Resolution 2020-114 to approve amendment to the South Fremont Industrial 
Redevelopment Plan and third amendment to the amended and restated Redevelopment 
Agreement. Motion made by Jensen, seconded by Legband to approve Resolution 2020-
114. Voting Yea: McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus Voting Nay: 
Yerger, Ellis. Motion carried. 
 
10. 
Resolution 2020-096 awarding contract to Wiese Plumbing & Excavating Inc. for 
Installation of Electrical Conduits for SE Beltway Relocations. Motion made by Jensen, 
seconded by Kuhns to approve Resolution 2020-096. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, McClain, 
Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. 
 
11. 
Resolution 2020-097 authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Thompson 
Construction for the Water main Encasement - SE Beltway project. Motion made by 
Legband, seconded by Kuhns to approve Resolution 2020-097. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, 
McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. 
 
13. 
Resolution 2020-098 authorizing $5,000,000 additional expenditure for the SE Beltway 
project. Motion made by Jacobus, seconded by Legband to amend the Resolution to 
provide for $1,500,000 additional expenditure instead of $5,000,000. Voting Yea: McClain, 
Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus Voting Nay: Yerger, Ellis. Motion carried. 
 
12. 
Ordinance 5533 pertaining to pay plan for officers and employees (proposed addition of 
Library Technology Specialist classification). Motion made by Jensen, seconded by 
Legband to hold first reading of Ordinance 5533. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, McClain, 
Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. City Clerk provided first 
reading. Motion made by Jensen, seconded by Legband to suspend the rules and move to 
final reading of Ordinance 5533. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, McClain, Jensen, Legband, 
Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. City Clerk provided final reading of Ordinance 
5533. Mayor Getzschman called for a final vote on Ordinance 5533. Voting Yea: Yerger, 
Ellis, McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Ordinance 5533 is approved. 
 
14. 
Ordinance 5532 to amend Section 11-601 of the Fremont Municipal Code to address 
development standards to exclude Planned Unit Development Districts (final reading). 
Motion made by Ellis, seconded by Jensen to receive document into the record. Voting 
Yea: Ellis, Jensen, Legband Voting Nay: Yerger, McClain, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. 
Motion failed. Motion made by Jacobus, seconded by Legband to hold final reading of the 
Ordinance 5532. Voting Yea: Yerger, McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, 
Jacobus Voting Nay: Ellis. Motion carried. City Clerk provided final reading. Mayor 
Getzschman called for a final vote on the Ordinance. Voting Yea: Yerger, McClain, 
Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus Voting Nay: Ellis. Ordinance 5532 is 
approved.  
 
15. 
Ordinance 5528 for a change of zone from R, Rural to PD, Planned Development for 
property commonly known as Bluestem Commons (final reading). Council Member Ellis 
moved to receive document into the record. Motion failed due to the lack of a second. 
Motion made by Legband, seconded by Jacobus to hold final reading of Ordinance 5528. 
Voting Yea: Yerger, McClain, Jensen, Legband, Kuhns, Jacobus Voting Nay: Ellis, 
Bechtel. Motion carried. City Clerk provided final reading. Mayor Getzschman called for a 
final vote on the Ordinance. Voting Yea: Yerger, McClain, Jensen, Legband, Kuhns, 
Jacobus Voting Nay: Ellis, Bechtel. Ordinance 5528 is approved. 
 
16. 
Resolution 2020-068 to approve the Bluestem Commons Preliminary Plat. Motion made 
by Kuhns, seconded by Legband to approve Resolution 2020-068. Voting Yea: Yerger, 
McClain, Jensen, Legband, Kuhns, Jacobus Voting Nay: Ellis, Bechtel. Motion carried. 
 
17. 
Resolution 2020-069 to approve the Bluestem Commons Final Plat. Motion made by 
Jensen, seconded by Kuhns to approve Resolution 2020-069. Voting Yea: Yerger, 
McClain, Jensen, Legband, Kuhns, Jacobus Voting Nay: Ellis, Bechtel. Motion carried. 
 
NEW BUSINESS: Requires individual associated action 
 
18. 
Resolution 2020-109 to approve Bluestem Commons Planned Development Agreement. 
Motion made by Jacobus, seconded by Legband to approve Resolution 2020-109. Voting 
Yea: Yerger, Jensen, Legband, Kuhns, Jacobus Voting Nay: Ellis, McClain, Bechtel. 
Motion carried. 
 
19. 
Motion to approve Bluestem Commons Subdivision Agreement. Motion made by Kuhns, 
seconded by Jacobus to approve Bluestem Commons Subdivision Agreement. Voting 
Yea: Legband, Kuhns, Jacobus Voting Nay: Yerger, Ellis, McClain, Jensen, Bechtel. 
Motion failed. 
 
20. 
Resolution 2020-110 awarding the base bid and alternate no. one (1) to Dicon Corporation 
for the Elevator Project at the Fremont Municipal Building. Motion made by Yerger, 
seconded by Legband to approve Resolution 2020-110. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, 
McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. 
 
21. 
Resolution 2020-111 approving a Local Option Economic Development Loan to Summit 
Medical Staffing, LLC. Motion made by Jacobus, seconded by Jensen to amend the 
Resolution to allow for 2 years of installments. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, McClain, Jensen, 
Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. Motion made by Jacobus, seconded 
by Jensen to approve Resolution 2020-111 as amended. Voting Yea: Yerger, Ellis, 
McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Motion carried. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Motion made by Jacobus, seconded by Legband to adjourn; time: 11:59 PM. Voting Yea: Ellis, 
McClain, Jensen, Legband, Bechtel, Kuhns, Jacobus. Voting Nay: Yerger. Motion carried. 
APPROVED AND ACCEPTED AS THE OFFICIAL COPY OF THE FREMONT, NEBRASKA 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY & REGULAR CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES FOR 
MAY 26, 2020. 
 
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Scott Getzschman, Mayor 
STAFF REPORT 
 
TO: 
HONORABLE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL 
 
FROM: 
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk 
 
DATE: 
June 9, 2020 
 
SUBJECT: 
Keep Fremont Beautiful Metal and Electronics Recycling Event 
 
Recommendation:  Approve resolution 2020-119 
 
 
Background:  The City has received a request for use of the Ilgenfritz parking lot from 
Keep Fremont Beautiful to use the lot for the All Metals Market and Cross Electronics 
Recycling Drop Site on Wednesday, August 26, 2020 from 4:30 to 8:00 p.m.  
 
Staff recommends granting the use of the parking lot as long as they maintain required 
social distancing measures. 
 
Fiscal Impact:  None 
1 
 
PARKING SPACE AGREEMENT 
 
This Parking Space Agreement (Agreement) is made and entered into on the 9th day of June 
2020, by and between the City of Fremont (Owner) and Keep Fremont Beautiful (Lessee) 
(collectively Parties). 
 
1. RECITALS 
 
1.1. Licensee wishes to lease public parking spaces from Owner for the following 
purpose(s): 
 
1.1.1. All Metals Market and Cross Electronics Recycling Drop Site; and  
 
1.2. Owner is willing to lease the following public parking space(s): 
 
1.2.1. Ilgenfritz Parking Lot; and  
 
1.3. Therefore, in consideration of the foregoing recitals and of the mutual covenants, 
terms, conditions and remuneration herein provided, and the rights and obligations 
created hereunder, the Parties agree as follows:  
 
2. DEFINITIONS 
2.1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the following terms, phrases, words, and their 
derivations, shall have the meaning given herein, unless more specifically defined 
within a specific Article or Section of this Agreement. When not inconsistent with the 
context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in the plural 
number include the singular number, and words in the singular number include the 
plural number. The words "shall" and “will” are mandatory and “may” is permissive. 
Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning. 
 
2.2. Parking space:  means a space authorized for public parking on a public street or in a 
public parking lot.  
 
2.3. Owner’s Facilities: means all public streets or public parking lots owned by the City.  
 
3. SCOPE 
 
3.1. Grant of Lease.  Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, Owner hereby grants to 
Lessee a lease authorizing the use of Owner’s facilities to Lessee for the 
purpose(s) stated above. 
 
3.2. No Interference With Core Utility Service Requirements.  Nothing contained in 
this Agreement shall limit Owner’s right to use its facilities to fulfill its own public 
service requirements consistent with its obligations under relevant law. 
 
2 
 
3.3. Access to Right-of-Way.  Owner shall grant Lessee nondiscriminatory access to 
its rights-of-way.  This obligation extends to rights-of-way Owner owns and/or has 
the right to authorize the use by the Lessee.  For rights-of-way to which Owner 
does not have the right to authorize the use by the Lessee, Lessee shall obtain 
such consent as is necessary from the owner of the right-of-way. 
 
4. TERM 
 
4.1. 
This Agreement shall continue in force and effect the day of August 26, 2020 
from 4:30p.m. to 8:00p.m.  The agreement may be terminated by either party for 
cause at anytime upon 10-day written notice to the notice to the other party.  The 
Lessee shall have a 10-day grace period to cure the cause of the default.  If the 
cause is not cured to the satisfaction of the Owner within the grace period, the 
agreement shall terminate 10-days thereafter. 
 
5. ASSIGNMENT OF RIGHTS 
 
5.1. Lessee may not assign or transfer this Agreement unless approved in writing by the 
Owner. 
 
6.   INDEMNIFICATION 
 
6.1. 
Damage.  Lessee agrees to take reasonable care to avoid damaging Owner’s 
Facilities and property of others. 
 
6.1.1. Lessee agrees to reimburse Owner for all reasonable costs incurred by 
Owner for the physical repair of damage to Owner’s Facilities caused by 
Lessee’s negligence. 
 
8.  INSURANCE 
8.1. Insurance.  Lessee shall carry insurance to protect the Parties hereto from and 
against any claims, demands, actions, judgements, costs, expenses and liabilities of 
every kind and nature which may arise or result, directly or indirectly, from or by 
reason of such loss, injury or damage. The amount of such insurance against liability 
due to damage to property shall be no less than $1,000,000.00 as to any one accident 
and $1,000,000.00 in aggregate; and against liability due to injury to or death of 
persons no less than $1,000,000.00 as to any one person and $1,000,000.00 to any 
one accident. Lessee shall also carry Workmen’s Compensation insurance as 
required by applicable Nebraska Statutes.  Lessee shall provide certificates of 
insurance to the Owner verifying the coverages required under this agreement and 
that it will not cancel or change any such policy except after thirty days notice to the 
Owner. 
9.    APPLICABLE LAW 
9.1. The provisions of this Agreement are subject to the laws of the State of Nebraska. 
10. 
   HEADINGS 
3 
 
10.1. 
The headings in this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only 
and shall in no way be considered in the interpretation of this Agreement. 
 
 
 
Lessee:_____________________________ 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
              
 
 
 
Name:                             
 
 
 
 
 
Title:                                                   
 
 
 
Date:  
 
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
Owner - City of Fremont 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
                 
 
 
 
Name:    
                                     
 
 
 
Title:                                                  
 
 
 
Date:  
 
 
               
 
 
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-119 
 
A Resolution of the City Council of the City of Fremont Nebraska, approving the 
request of Keep Fremont Beautiful to use the Ilgenfritz Parking Lot for the All 
Metals Market and Cross Electronics Recycling Drop Site 
 
Whereas, Keep Fremont Beautiful has requested the use of the Ilgenfritz Parking 
Lot for the All Metals Market and Cross Electronics Recycling Drop Site on from 4:30 
p.m. to 8:00 p.m., August 26, 2020; and 
 
Whereas, this resolution is contingent upon Keep Fremont Beautiful providing a 
certificate of insurance naming the City of Fremont as additional insured. 
 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and City Council approve Keep 
Fremont Beautiful to use the Ilgenfritz Parking Lot for the All Metals Market and Cross 
Electronics Recycling Drop Site on August 26, 2020 from 4:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m., as long 
as the required COVID-19 social distancing measures are maintained. 
 
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 9th DAY OF JUNE, 2020 
 
 
 
SCOTT GETZSCHMAN, MAYOR 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
TYLER FICKEN, CITY CLERK 
 
 
 
STAFF REPORT  
 
 
TO: 
 
Honorable Mayor and City Council  
 
FROM: 
 
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk 
 
 
DATE:  
June 9, 2020 
 
SUBJECT: 
Appointment to Local Option Review Team 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Background: Appointment will be for a two-year term. 
Recommendation: Move to approve the recommendation of the Mayor to appoint Scott 
Meister as Greater Fremont Development Council’s representative to a term ending June 
2022. 
 
STAFF REPORT  
 
 
 
TO: 
Honorable Mayor and City Council 
FROM: 
Chief of Police Jeff Elliott  
DATE: 
June 9,2020 
SUBJECT:    Geo-Comm Mapping/AVL System and Software for Fremont Police  
 
 
Recommendation:  Approve Resolution 2020-120 to use budgeted funds to purchase 
the Geo-Comm Mapping/AVL System for the Police Department 
 
Background: The Fremont Police recently updated the software used to manage 
police records. At the same time, the Communications Center (PSAP) also updated 
their software. 
 
One of the benefits of this software update is a component allows GPS tracking of 
police vehicles and the ability to add a map interface to police mobile data terminals 
and dispatch computers. This ability was not present in our previous software.  The 
ability to track and monitor the location of emergency personnel as well as provide 
them with all of the data from the mapping system is a huge boost to officer and 
citizen safety.  
 
When the Police Department budgeted this year, money was requested and granted 
by the City Council for the purchase of additional software and equipment to interface 
with the new computer system for this purpose.  
 
After exploring various options, it’s been determined that Geo-Comm Geolynx Server 
and Mobile Systems is the best solution to interface with our new computer system.  
The vendor choices are limited to using the mapping and AVL system that is part of 
the records system – Zuercher - or using the system that is an extension of the 
mapping system already in place in dispatch.  That mapping system is Geo-Comm.  
Either solution would provide all of the features however the Geo-Lynx quote is less 
expensive. 
 
The GeoLynx Server AVL and Mobile Systems would provide software for each police 
mobile data unit and allow those vehicles to be tracked by dispatch.  It also provides a 
full map interface in the cruiser that allows the officer to see where the calls for service 
are located, where other units in the city are, road closures and other data tracked by 
the dispatcher. This project extends the functionality of the existing PSAP maps out to 
the emergency responders. This allows the patrol division to have all of the features 
and benefits of having a mapping system integrated with the information that is 
coming in to the dispatch center.  It also allows this system to provide them with the 
custom maps that have been developed by the PSAP. 
 
The proposed modem/antenna system will greatly enhance the connectivity to the 
vehicles, not only for the mapping/AVL but for all of the applications that are on the 
mobile data terminals.  The city IT department tested the proposed modem and 
discovered a marked improvement in the in-vehicle reception.  He drove 40+ miles in 
and around Fremont without losing connectivity. 
 
Three companies submitted bids for the vehicle modem/antenna. Here is the bid tab: 
Geo-Comm Geolynx Server and Mobile System bids 
Bidder 
Vehicle Modem/antenna Bid 
Geo-Comm Costs 
USAT 
$13,151.18 
$28,309 
Total Wireless Data 
$14,448.00 
$28,309 
CDW-G 
$13,896.64 
$28,309 
 
 
The cost of the equipment and software is under what was budgeted for this project.  
 
Fiscal Impact: $28,309 for Geo-Comm system, installation and training, and $13,151.18 
for vehicle modem/antenna. Total expense $41,460.18   
Contract # 20200306 – CFPDNE 
Page 1 of 6 
 
 
GeoLynx Server AVL and Mobile Systems 
Work Authorization # 20200306 - CFPDNE 
March 6, 2020 
Geo-Comm, Inc. 
601 West St. Germain 
St. Cloud, MN 56301 
Phone: (320) 240-0040 
www.geo-comm.com  
City of Fremont Police Department, Nebraska 
Chief Jeff Elliott 
725 N. Park Ave 
Fremont, NE 68025 
Phone: (402) 727-2687 
Email: Jeff.Elliott@fremontne.gov 
 
Scope of Work 
Upon execution of Agreement, GeoComm will provide solutions and services as described in the exhibits.   
Pricing and Payment Terms 
The City of Fremont Police Department will pay GeoComm $28,309.00 plus applicable sales taxes* as 
further described in Exhibit A – Pricing.   
 
The City of Fremont Police Department agrees to pay GeoComm on the following payment schedule: 
• 
$13,625.00 
invoiced net 45 days upon contract signing 
• 
$14,684.00 
invoiced net 45 days upon project completion of installation and training and start 
 
 
of year one software support 
 
City of Fremont Police Department Authorization 
Signature 
 
Print Name  
 
Purchase Order # (if required) 
 
Date 
 
 
 
*If entity is tax exempt, please email tax exemption certificate to dhaus@geo-comm.com.   
 
 
 
Contract # 20200306 – CFPDNE 
Page 2 of 6 
Exhibit A – Pricing 
 
Prices are valid for a period of 90 days. 
Total does not include sales tax.  The City of Fremont Police Department is responsible for paying all 
sales taxes.   
Description 
Total Price 
GeoLynx Mobile Server Edition GIS Setup Services 
$1,000 
GeoLynx Server AVL Licensing (tracking up to 20 vehicles) 
$6,000 
LTS Server License (Qty 1) 
Included 
GeoLynx Mobile Server Edition Licenses (Qty 15)  
$5,625 
LTS Client Licenses (Qty 15)  
$1,500 
GeoLynx Server Tracked Vehicle Viewing 
Included 
GeoLynx Server AVL System Installation and Training 
$6,000 
GeoLynx Mobile Server Edition Installation and Training  
$3,100 
Project Management Services 
$2,459 
GeoLynx Server AVL Licensing Annual Software Support and Maintenance 
$1,200 
LTS Server Annual Software Support and Maintenance 
Included 
GeoLynx Mobile Server Edition Licensing Annual Software Support and Maintenance 
$1,125 
LTS Client Licensing Annual Software Support and Maintenance  
$300 
GeoLynx Server Tracked Vehicle Viewing Annual Software Support and Maintenance 
Included 
Total: 
$28,309 
Notes: 
Pricing does not include GPS units, their installation, or a data service plan to provide for data transport to and 
from the vehicles being tracked at the dispatch center.  The City of Fremont Police Department is responsible for 
providing these elements. 
 
Pricing is valid if GeoLynx Mobile Server Edition is purchased and implemented simultaneously with the  
GeoLynx Server AVL system.   
 
Installation and training pricing reflects GeoComm implementing five (5) licenses each of GeoLynx Mobile and LTS 
Client while onsite and training a City of Fremont Police Department representative to install the remaining 
licenses.  The City of Fremont Police Department may contract for additional days onsite, for a fee, based on 
availability and the number of licenses to be installed.  Additional days must be contracted for prior to onsite 
installation and training. 
GeoLynx Server with ArcGIS Network Analyst for Server is prerequisite software for GeoLynx Mobile Server 
Edition. 
 
GeoLynx Mobile Server Edition will utilize the existing GeoLynx Server network routing dataset currently deployed 
with the City of Fremont/Dodge County GeoLynx Server Dispatch Mapping system.   
 
 
Contract # 20200306 – CFPDNE 
Page 3 of 6 
Exhibit B – Scope of Work 
This work order is to extend the functionality to the City of Fremont/Dodge County’s existing GeoLynx 
Server Dispatch Mapping system by deploying GeoLynx Server AVL for automatic vehicle location 
(AVL) to support vehicle tracking for up to 20 mobile units, accommodating the 15 GeoLynx Mobile 
Server Edition licenses. 
Pricing does not include system hardware.  The City of Fremont Police Department is responsible for 
providing hardware meeting the minimum specifications provided below.   
In addition, as part of the City of Fremont/Dodge County GIS maintenance agreement with GeoComm, 
GeoComm will create an updated GIS map data packet and provision it to GeoLynx Server up to four 
times annually.   
 
 
Contract # 20200306 – CFPDNE 
Page 4 of 6 
Exhibit C – Customer Responsibilities 
We believe our clients play a critical role in a project’s success.  While GeoComm will lead the project 
efforts, we will partner with you to ensure you have in-depth project knowledge and are kept informed 
about the project status and meeting project goals.   
It is requested that the City of Fremont Police Department provide the following general project support: 
• 
Assist in coordinating and attend periodic conference calls 
• 
Provide pertinent project information and documentation 
• 
Assist in ongoing quality control 
• 
Provide a single point of contact at the City of Fremont Police Department available for 
communication throughout the project and system implementation 
• 
Assign appropriate staff to attend the training courses provided 
• 
Have standard IT procedures in place including disaster recovery, system backups, etc.  
• 
Keep and maintain backup copies of current software and current map data files 
• 
Provide a projector for use during all onsite training 
• 
Submit required GIS information (e.g. GIS map data, public safety databases, and/or other 
resources) to our website (http://www.geo-comm.com/data-submission).   
In addition to the requirements above, the City of Fremont Police Department will be responsible for the 
following project-specific support: 
GeoLynx Server AVL System 
• 
Ensure a mobile data communication network is in place where GPS units in vehicles can 
communicate with the GeoComm Message Switch at the communications center. 
• 
Ensure the GeoComm Message Switch at the communications center can communicate with 
GeoLynx Server.   
• 
Have approved GPS units installed in each vehicle for in-vehicle mapping and navigation and/or 
have approved cellular or two-way radio modems installed in each vehicle to be tracked that can 
communicate the location back to the GeoComm Message Switch at the communications 
center. 
o Ensure mobile data computers in vehicles are assigned static IP addresses. 
o Ensure cellular modems with integrated GPS in vehicles can communicate with the 
GeoComm Message Switch at the communications center. 
GeoLynx Mobile Server Edition  
• 
Have approved GPS units installed in each vehicle for in-vehicle mapping and navigation and/or 
have approved cellular or two-way radio modems installed in each vehicle that will be tracked 
that can communicate the location back to the dedicated web server at the communications 
center for fleet viewing. 
• 
For unit or fleet viewing in GeoLynx Mobile, purchase one LTS Client and have one approved 
GPS unit installed in each vehicle.   
• 
Provide a network connection for mobile data computers with a minimum speed of 1.5Mb/sec 
for data synchronization and remote map service viewing.  If a large amount of remotely served 
map data will be used and/or the fleet tracking option is selected, then higher client bandwidths 
are recommended.  
Contract # 20200306 – CFPDNE 
Page 5 of 6 
• 
Provide a WAN gateway bandwidth at the server-side sized for the amount of data to be served 
to mobiles.  If you are using a lot of ArcGIS map services served from your own servers, you will 
need a larger WAN gateway bandwidth.  GeoComm implementation specialists can assist with 
running system capacity plan models to determine exact network requirements for your 
configuration.  
• 
Provide GIS map data meeting GeoLynx Mobile’s required map data specifications, including 
information regarding coordinate system/projection.   
• 
Purchase and have installed and available a mobile data computer, meeting the specifications 
listed below for each license of GeoLynx Mobile. 
System Components 
Minimum 
Recommended 
Description 
GeoLynx Mobile Client allows a user to access a mobile map of their surroundings.  In 
certain environments, it is also possible for the user to receive AVL data, CAD calls, 
and 9-1-1 calls from dispatch.   
CPU 
2.33 GHz or better or 1.60 GHz 
dual core or better 
2.5 GHz dual core or better 
RAM 
2 GB or more 
4 GB or more 
Available Hard Drive 
Space 
GeoLynx Mobile Server Edition: 
20 GB or more 
GeoLynx Mobile MDC Edition: 
40 GB or more 
GeoLynx Mobile Server Edition: 
40 GB or more.  GeoComm recommends shock 
mounted hard drive to protect against vibration 
and jarring damage in a mobile environment. 
GeoLynx Mobile MDC Edition: 
80 GB or more.  GeoComm recommends shock 
mounted hard drive to protect against vibration 
and jarring damage in a mobile environment.   
 
Note:  
Disk space should be considered for not only GIS and aerial data, but also for 
the geographical area covered by locally stored map caches 
Display 
800x600 resolution, 24-bit color 
depth, with Active Matrix 
1024x768 resolution or better, 32-bit color depth, 
with Active Matrix 
It is desirable to choose a display that is highly 
visible in a mobile environment which may include 
side angle viewing and different lighting 
environments.   
Input Device 
Keyboard and mouse or touchpad 
Keyboard and mouse, touchpad, or touchscreen 
(simple or multi-touch gestures support) 
Graphics Card 
32 MB integrated graphics card 
256 MB discrete graphics card or better with 
OpenGL 2.0 support 
Network 
GeoLynx Mobile Server Edition: 
384 kbps 
GeoLynx Mobile MDC Edition: 
Optional.  Required for outside 
data sources (384 kbps) 
GeoLynx Mobile Server Edition: 
1500 kbps 
GeoLynx Mobile MDC Edition: 
384 kbps or higher 
Operating System 
Windows 7 Pro, Enterprise, & Ultimate (32-bit and 64-bit), Windows 8.1 Pro (64 bit), or 
Windows 10 Enterprise (64 bit). 
Serial Ports 
If your application requires a serial port, we strongly recommend you select a mobile 
data computer with a built in hardware serial port.  While it is possible to add serial ports 
with PCMCIA cards or USB adapters, GeoComm has found these to be less reliable in 
a mobile environment.  If your application requires multiple serial ports, we recommend 
a mobile docking station built for this purpose.  Call GeoComm if you have any 
questions regarding your GeoComm application and serial port requirements.   
Contract # 20200306 – CFPDNE 
Page 6 of 6 
System Components 
Minimum 
Recommended 
Note: 
GeoLynx Mobile Server Client requires AVL StdIP Mobile or LTS Client for 
receiving AVL data via TCP connection. 
Optical Drive 
DVD-ROM 
DVD+-RW 
Durability 
Some customers prefer typical 
laptops over more expensive 
semi-durable or ruggedized 
mobile data computers.  Typical 
laptops are less expensive but do 
not last as long in a mobile 
environment.  Some customers 
use this to their advantage as they 
can install newer, faster 
technology as it becomes 
available, in a sense viewing the 
typical laptop as disposable.   
Semi-durable or ruggedized mobile data 
computer.   
GPS Units 
Antenna Plus 
• 
APG100-SN – USB with built in serial adapter, creates virtual comport 
Cypress Solutions Chameleon Modems 
• 
CTM 150/2 
Garmin 
• 
GPS-18 – Serial  
Location Technologies 
• 
LT4 – Serial 
• 
LT5 – Serial  
• 
LTS – Serial 
Sierra Wireless 
• 
AirLink PinPoint Ethernet – Ethernet/Serial 
• 
AirLink PinPoint – Serial 
Blue Tree 
• 
5600v2 
 
 
 
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-120 
 
 
A Resolution of the City Council of the City of Fremont, Nebraska, to 
authorize Staff to purchase the GEO COMM MAPPING/AVL SYSTEM AND 
SOFTWARE. 
 
 
WHEREAS, the tracking of police vehicles by a dispatch system allows for much  
quicker and efficient response to calls for service; and 
 
WHEREAS; the ability to track police vehicles can only be achieved by the  
installation of equipment and software in the police dispatch center and the police 
 vehicles; and 
 
WHEREAS, this capability has been sought after, and budgeted by the Fremont 
Police Department; and 
 
WHEREAS, the funds for this project were approved by the Fremont City Council in 
the police budget; and 
 
WHEREAS, a search of several options to fulfill this project was completed by 
Fremont Police, Communications Director and City IT department; and 
 
WHEREAS, GEO COMM Mapping/AVL System and Software were determined to 
by the best solution for the implementation of this project; and 
 
WHEREAS, the cost of the GEO COMM Mapping/AVL System and Software is 
$28,309 for system, installation and training, $13,151.18 for vehicle modem/antenna.  
Total expense $41,460.18   
  
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the City Council of the City of Fremont 
hereby allow the Chief of Police to sign the agreement with GEO COMM for the 
implementation of this program.  
 
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 9th day of June, 2020  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
Scott Getzschman, Mayor 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
_______________________________________ 
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk  
STAFF REPORT 
 
TO: 
HONORABLE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL 
 
FROM: 
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk 
 
DATE: 
June 9, 2020 
 
SUBJECT: 
Fremont Opera House – Ice Cream Social 
 
Recommendation:  Approve resolution 2020-121 
 
 
Background:  The City has received a request from Fremont Opera House to use the 
City parking lot north of the Opera House for an Ice Cream Social on June 28, 2020 
from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. (June 30, 2020 rain date). There will be a live local band and 
attendees will pay $5, and will receive prepackaged ice cream. 
 
Staff recommends granting the use of the parking lot as long as they maintain required 
social distancing measures. 
 
Fiscal Impact:  None 
1 
 
PARKING SPACE AGREEMENT 
 
This Parking Space Agreement (Agreement) is made and entered into on the 9th day of June 
2020, by and between the City of Fremont (Owner) and Fremont Opera House (Lessee) 
(collectively Parties). 
 
1. RECITALS 
 
1.1. Licensee wishes to lease public parking spaces from Owner for the following 
purpose(s): 
 
1.1.1. Ice Cream Social; and  
 
1.2. Owner is willing to lease the following public parking space(s): 
 
1.2.1. Parking lot north of Fremont Opera House; and  
 
1.3. Therefore, in consideration of the foregoing recitals and of the mutual covenants, 
terms, conditions and remuneration herein provided, and the rights and obligations 
created hereunder, the Parties agree as follows:  
 
2. DEFINITIONS 
2.1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the following terms, phrases, words, and their 
derivations, shall have the meaning given herein, unless more specifically defined 
within a specific Article or Section of this Agreement. When not inconsistent with the 
context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in the plural 
number include the singular number, and words in the singular number include the 
plural number. The words "shall" and “will” are mandatory and “may” is permissive. 
Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning. 
 
2.2. Parking space:  means a space authorized for public parking on a public street or in a 
public parking lot.  
 
2.3. Owner’s Facilities: means all public streets or public parking lots owned by the City.  
 
3. SCOPE 
 
3.1. Grant of Lease.  Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, Owner hereby grants to 
Lessee a lease authorizing the use of Owner’s facilities to Lessee for the 
purpose(s) stated above. 
 
3.2. No Interference With Core Utility Service Requirements.  Nothing contained in 
this Agreement shall limit Owner’s right to use its facilities to fulfill its own public 
service requirements consistent with its obligations under relevant law. 
 
2 
 
3.3. Access to Right-of-Way.  Owner shall grant Lessee nondiscriminatory access to 
its rights-of-way.  This obligation extends to rights-of-way Owner owns and/or has 
the right to authorize the use by the Lessee.  For rights-of-way to which Owner 
does not have the right to authorize the use by the Lessee, Lessee shall obtain 
such consent as is necessary from the owner of the right-of-way. 
 
4. TERM 
 
4.1. 
This Agreement shall continue in force and effect the day of June 28, 2020 from 
6:00p.m. to 8:00p.m (Rain date June 30, 2020 6:00p.m. to 8:00p.m).  The 
agreement may be terminated by either party for cause at anytime upon 10-day 
written notice to the notice to the other party.  The Lessee shall have a 10-day 
grace period to cure the cause of the default.  If the cause is not cured to the 
satisfaction of the Owner within the grace period, the agreement shall terminate 
10-days thereafter. 
 
5. ASSIGNMENT OF RIGHTS 
 
5.1. Lessee may not assign or transfer this Agreement unless approved in writing by the 
Owner. 
 
6.   INDEMNIFICATION 
 
6.1. 
Damage.  Lessee agrees to take reasonable care to avoid damaging Owner’s 
Facilities and property of others. 
 
6.1.1. Lessee agrees to reimburse Owner for all reasonable costs incurred by 
Owner for the physical repair of damage to Owner’s Facilities caused by 
Lessee’s negligence. 
 
8.  INSURANCE 
8.1. Insurance.  Lessee shall carry insurance to protect the Parties hereto from and 
against any claims, demands, actions, judgements, costs, expenses and liabilities of 
every kind and nature which may arise or result, directly or indirectly, from or by 
reason of such loss, injury or damage. The amount of such insurance against liability 
due to damage to property shall be no less than $1,000,000.00 as to any one accident 
and $1,000,000.00 in aggregate; and against liability due to injury to or death of 
persons no less than $1,000,000.00 as to any one person and $1,000,000.00 to any 
one accident. Lessee shall also carry Workmen’s Compensation insurance as 
required by applicable Nebraska Statutes.  Lessee shall provide certificates of 
insurance to the Owner verifying the coverages required under this agreement and 
that it will not cancel or change any such policy except after thirty days notice to the 
Owner. 
9.    APPLICABLE LAW 
9.1. The provisions of this Agreement are subject to the laws of the State of Nebraska. 
3 
 
10. 
   HEADINGS 
10.1. 
The headings in this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only 
and shall in no way be considered in the interpretation of this Agreement. 
 
 
 
Lessee:_____________________________ 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
              
 
 
 
Name:                             
 
 
 
 
 
Title:                                                   
 
 
 
Date:  
 
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
Owner - City of Fremont 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
                 
 
 
 
Name:    
                                     
 
 
 
Title:                                                  
 
 
 
Date:  
 
 
               
 
 
INSR
ADDL SUBR
LTR
INSR WVD
DATE (MM/DD/YYYY)
PRODUCER
CONTACT
NAME:
FAX
PHONE
(A/C, No):
(A/C, No, Ext):
E-MAIL
ADDRESS:
INSURER A :
INSURED
INSURER B :
INSURER C :
INSURER D :
INSURER E :
INSURER F :
POLICY NUMBER
POLICY EFF
POLICY EXP
TYPE OF INSURANCE
LIMITS
(MM/DD/YYYY) (MM/DD/YYYY)
COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY
UMBRELLA LIAB
EXCESS LIAB
WORKERS COMPENSATION
AND EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS / LOCATIONS / VEHICLES (ACORD 101, Additional Remarks Schedule, may be attached if more space is required)
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
INSURER(S) AFFORDING COVERAGE
NAIC #
Y / N
N / A
(Mandatory in NH)
ANY PROPRIETOR/PARTNER/EXECUTIVE
OFFICER/MEMBER EXCLUDED?
EACH OCCURRENCE
$
DAMAGE TO RENTED
$
PREMISES (Ea occurrence)
CLAIMS-MADE
OCCUR
MED EXP (Any one person)
$
PERSONAL & ADV INJURY
$
GENERAL AGGREGATE
$
GEN'L AGGREGATE LIMIT APPLIES PER:
PRODUCTS - COMP/OP AGG
$
$
PRO-
OTHER:
LOC
JECT
COMBINED SINGLE LIMIT
$
(Ea accident)
BODILY INJURY (Per person)
$
ANY AUTO
OWNED
SCHEDULED
BODILY INJURY (Per accident)
$
AUTOS ONLY
AUTOS
AUTOS ONLY
HIRED
PROPERTY DAMAGE
$
AUTOS ONLY
(Per accident)
$
OCCUR
EACH OCCURRENCE
$
CLAIMS-MADE
AGGREGATE
$
DED
RETENTION $
$
PER
OTH-
STATUTE
ER
E.L. EACH ACCIDENT
$
E.L. DISEASE - EA EMPLOYEE $
If yes, describe under
E.L. DISEASE - POLICY LIMIT
$
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS below
POLICY
NON-OWNED
SHOULD ANY OF THE ABOVE DESCRIBED POLICIES BE CANCELLED BEFORE
THE    EXPIRATION   DATE    THEREOF,    NOTICE   WILL   BE   DELIVERED   IN
ACCORDANCE   WITH   THE   POLICY   PROVISIONS.
THIS  IS  TO  CERTIFY  THAT  THE  POLICIES  OF  INSURANCE  LISTED  BELOW  HAVE BEEN ISSUED  TO THE  INSURED  NAMED ABOVE  FOR THE  POLICY PERIOD
INDICATED.   NOTWITHSTANDING  ANY   REQUIREMENT,  TERM  OR  CONDITION OF  ANY  CONTRACT OR  OTHER  DOCUMENT  WITH  RESPECT  TO  WHICH  THIS
CERTIFICATE  MAY  BE  ISSUED  OR  MAY  PERTAIN,   THE  INSURANCE  AFFORDED  BY  THE  POLICIES  DESCRIBED  HEREIN  IS  SUBJECT  TO  ALL  THE  TERMS,
EXCLUSIONS  AND  CONDITIONS  OF  SUCH  POLICIES.   LIMITS  SHOWN  MAY  HAVE  BEEN  REDUCED  BY  PAID  CLAIMS.
THIS CERTIFICATE IS ISSUED AS A MATTER OF INFORMATION ONLY AND CONFERS NO RIGHTS UPON THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER. THIS
CERTIFICATE DOES NOT AFFIRMATIVELY OR NEGATIVELY AMEND, EXTEND OR ALTER THE COVERAGE AFFORDED BY THE POLICIES
BELOW. THIS CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A CONTRACT BETWEEN THE ISSUING INSURER(S), AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE OR PRODUCER, AND THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER.
IMPORTANT: If the certificate holder is an ADDITIONAL INSURED, the policy(ies) must have ADDITIONAL INSURED provisions or be endorsed.
If SUBROGATION IS WAIVED, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy, certain policies may require an endorsement. A statement on
this certificate does not confer any rights to the certificate holder in lieu of such endorsement(s).
COVERAGES
CERTIFICATE NUMBER:
REVISION NUMBER:
CERTIFICATE HOLDER
CANCELLATION
© 1988-2015 ACORD CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
The ACORD name and logo are registered marks of ACORD
ACORD 25 (2016/03)
ACORDTM
CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE
Columbia National Insurance Group
05/29/2020
INSPRO Insurance
P.O. Box 689
Fremont, NE  68026
402 721-9707
Teresa Kenney
402-941-1921
402-721-2844
tkenney@insproins.com
Fremont Opera House, Inc.
P.O. Box 383
Fremont, NE  68026-0383
19640
A
X
X
CMPNE09043
10/01/2019 10/01/2020
1,000,000
100,000
5,000
1,000,000
2,000,000
2,000,000
A
X
X
X
10000
CUPNE09043
10/01/2019 10/01/2020
2,000,000
2,000,000
City of Fremont is listed as an Additional Insured
City of Fremont
400 E. Military
Fremont, NE  68025
1 of 1
#S1245196/M1245195
FREMO53
Client#: 10798
TAK
This page has been left blank intentionally.
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-121 
 
A Resolution of the City Council of the City of Fremont Nebraska, approving the 
request of Fremont Opera House to use the Parking lot north of the Fremont 
Opera House for an Ice Cream Social 
 
Whereas, Fremont Opera House has requested the use of the parking lot north 
of the Opera House for an Ice Cream Social on June 28, 2020 from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. 
(June 30, 2020 rain date); and 
 
Whereas, this resolution is contingent upon Fremont Opera House providing a 
certificate of insurance naming the City of Fremont as additional insured. 
 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and City Council approve 
Fremont Opera House to use the parking lot north of the Opera House for an Ice Cream 
Social on June 28, 2020 from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. (June 30, 2020 rain date), as long as 
the required COVID-19 social distancing measure are maintained. 
 
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 9th DAY OF JUNE, 2020 
 
 
 
SCOTT GETZSCHMAN, MAYOR 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
TYLER FICKEN, CITY CLERK 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STAFF REPORT  
 
TO: 
 
City of Fremont Mayor and City Council  
 
FROM: 
 
Utilities and Infrastructure Board 
 
 
 
Jeff Shanahan, Power Plant Superintendent 
 
DATE:  
June 9, 2020 
 
SUBJECT: 
Lon D. Wright Power Plant Lease Caterpillar Compact Track Loader  
 
Recommendation: Request Authorization to enter into a one-year lease agreement with Nebraska 
Machinery (NMC) for a Caterpillar Compact Track Loader Model 259D3. 
 
BACKGROUND:  
 
This is a one-year lease agreement for a Caterpillar Compact Track Loader Model 259D3 
(Skid Steer) to be utilized at the Lon D. Wright Power Plant. This loader will primarily be 
utilized to move lime ash and waste grit from the Air Quality Control System to the ash 
monofill. 
 
NMC offered the City of Fremont Lon D. Wright (LDW) Power Plant a one-year lease 
agreement at the government rate of $5,500 dollar.  
 
This item was discussed at the May 12, 2020 Utilities and Infrastructure Board Meeting 
and the Board voted 5 to 0 that the City Council authorize City Staff to sign a lease 
agreement and issue a purchase order to NMC for a Caterpillar Compact Track Loader 
Model 259D3 for $5,500. 
 
FISCAL IMPACT: 
 
$5,500 for Caterpillar Compact Track Loader, this item was budgeted  
SALES AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT DATE 05/28/2020
VALID UNTIL
1 of 3
11002 Sapp Bros. Dr.
Omaha, NE 68138
(800) 628-6025
06/17/2020
Fremont Dept Of Utilities
400 East Military Avenue
Fremont, NE 68025
USA
2228000
Ryan Keiser
Fremont Dept Of Utilities
400 East Military Avenue
Fremont, NE 68025
USA
2228000
Invoice Account
Order Account
Customer PO
Delivery Method
Page
Salesperson
Quoted To:
Ship To:
RyanKeiser@nmccat.com
+14028917741
Phone Number
Email Address
Item Information
QTO049543-2
AGREEMENT ID
Serial Number: CW904635
Machine Model: 259D3
Make: Caterpillar
Equipment ID: EQN124214
Machine Model: 2795374_SSL
Make: Caterpillar
Model: 259D3
Description
Machine Specification
259D3 CTL DCA4A
TRACK,RUBBER,400MM(15.7 IN)BAR
INSTRUCTIONS, ANSI, USA
SERIALIZED TECHNICAL MEDIA KIT
CAROLINA CDC - - AVAILABILITY
SHIPPING/STORAGE PROTECTION
LANE 1 ORDER
259D3 COMPACT TRACK LOADER
CAB PACKAGE, PRO PLUS
HYDRAULICS, PERFORMANCE, (H2)
CONTROL, ISO, PROP, WT
LIGHTS, LED
ROPS, ENCLOSED WITH A/C (C3)
DISPLAY, ADVANCED, LCD, CAMERA
FAN, COOLING, DEMAND
QUICK COUPLER, HYDRAULIC
SEAT,AIR SUSPENSION,CLOTH,HEAT
FILM, TWO SPEED
RADIO, AM/FM, BLUETOOTH
RUBBER BELT, 2 SPD, TF IDLERS
RIDE CONTROL, NONE
BATTERY,HD,DISCONNECT, 850 CCA
REAR LIGHTS
DOOR, CAB, GLASS
SEAT BELT, 2"
PRODUCT LINK, CELLULAR PL243
CERTIFICATION ARR, P65
HEATER, ENGINE COOLANT, 120V
Model: 2795374_SSL
Description
Machine Specification
BUCKET-GP, 74", BOT
CONTINUED
SALES AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT DATE 05/28/2020
VALID UNTIL
2 of 3
11002 Sapp Bros. Dr.
Omaha, NE 68138
(800) 628-6025
06/17/2020
QTO049543-2
AGREEMENT ID
Sell Price of 259D3
50,230.00
Extended Warranty
Included
Net Balance Due
Sales Tax
Document Fee
After Tax Balance
3,516.10
53,746.10
0.00
50,230.00
Warranty
Extended Warranty: 2yr/2000hr premier
Payment Terms
Down - Payment
Total Financed
Amount
Rate
Payment Period
Number of
Payments
Payment Amount
5,500.00
0.00
0 %
0
0.00
Financial Services: 
Customer Name: Fremont Dept Of Utilities
Additional Terms:
This Agreement is subject exclusively to the Terms and Conditions for Equipment Sale attached
hereto as Exhibit A which is a part hereof and incorporated by reference herein. NMC specifically
rejects any terms and conditions contained in documents provided by Buyer (including, without
limitation any purchase order) even if signed by NMC. Such documents shall be solely for internal
administration by Buyer and have no legal effect upon NMC. ALL SALES ARE FINAL.
Buyer's signature below signifies Buyer's agreement to these terms and constitutes Buyer's
acknowledgment of the legally binding effect of this Agreement.
Nebraska Machinery Company
By:
By:
Date:
Date:
The following terms and conditions form a material component of the Sales Agreement ("Agreement") between NMC and the Buyer for sale of
the Equipment:
1. Definitions for this Agreement:  "Buyer" is the individual or entity listed as Buyer on this Agreement's front page.   "Delivery" shall occur
and Equipment shall be considered "delivered" when NMC delivers the Equipment to Buyer, Buyer’s agent or to the transportation company
that is to transport the Equipment to Buyer, whichever occurs first. "Equipment" is the equipment listed by model and description this
Agreement's front page.  “NMC” is Nebraska Machinery Company or any affiliated company of Nebraska Machinery Company selling the
Equipment under this Agreement.
2. Payment: Buyer shall pay NMC in full at the time Buyer signs this Agreement, unless otherwise specifically noted on this Agreement's front
page.
3. Excusable Delivery Delays: In the event of a delay in delivery, the delay shall be excused when caused by events beyond NMC’s
reasonable control (including by way of example, but not limitation, strike, accident, transportation interruption, actions of third parties and
reduction or unavailability of components or machinery at NMC's normal source of supply).  If such a delay continues for a period greater than
sixty (60) days, either party may, at its option, cancel this Agreement without liability (other than NMC’s return of the amounts paid by Buyer on
this Agreement).
4. Duration of Offer: Buyer's signature on this Agreement shall constitute an offer to buy the Equipment pursuant to this Agreement.  NMC’s
acceptance of the offer shall be indicated by its signature on this Agreement.  Buyer shall not revoke or countermand said offer for ten (10)
days from the date of this Agreement; thereafter it may be countermanded or revoked by written notice to NMC until the time, if any, of NMC
acceptance of this Agreement.  If NMC accepts, this Agreement (and any Security Agreement and/or promissory note signed by Buyer and
accepted by NMC in writing) shall constitute the entire understanding and agreement between the parties relating to the Equipment transaction.
5. Execution of Other Documents: Unless the Equipment is fully paid for in cash at or before delivery, NMC retains a Uniform Commercial
Code security interest in such Equipment together with all and any substitutions, additions, accessions, sale or other proceeds, and products
thereof and thereto. Buyer shall execute and deliver to NMC any evidences of indebtedness that NMC may require. Any note so taken by NMC
shall evidence indebtedness only and is not payment for the Equipment.
6. Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability: WITH REGARD TO NEW EQUIPMENT, THE APPLICABLE WARRANTY
PROVIDED BY THE EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURER SHALL APPLY IN LIEU OF ANY OTHER WARRANTIES WHETHER EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE).  IT IS UNDERSTOOD THAT UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES DOES NMC MAKE ANY WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER.
BUYER UNDERSTANDS AND AGREES THAT ANY USED EQUIPMENT IS SOLD  “AS IS” AND WITH ALL FAULTS OR DEFECTS.  NMC
SHALL NOT BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (EVEN IF
NMC HAS BEEN ADVISED SUCH DAMAGES ARE POSSIBLE), AND BUYER HEREBY WAIVES THEM TO THE EXTENT NOT
PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW.    
7. Taxes: Unless otherwise specifically stated on this Agreement's front page, quoted prices do not include sales or any other taxes. Buyer
shall be responsible for and promptly pay all taxes unless NMC approves a Buyer tax-exemption certificate.
8. Insurance: At all times after delivery, the Equipment shall be the responsibility solely of Buyer, and Buyer shall assume all risks of
Equipment damage, delay or loss.  Buyer shall maintain and provide proper proof to NMC of insurance on the Equipment, in amounts, form,
and with an insurer approved by NMC, adequate to protect NMC’s interest in the Equipment until such time as Buyer fully pays for the
Equipment.  NMC shall be named as additional insured, co-beneficiary and loss payee on any liability insurance for Equipment for the full
insurable value.  Until and unless Buyer obtains and proves such insurance, NMC may in NMC's discretion insure the Equipment for NMC’s
benefit.  In such event, Buyer shall pay NMC for insurance premiums.  
9. Data: Buyer authorizes NMC, NMC affiliates, any data processor contracted with by NMC, the Equipment manufacturers and their affiliates,
to access, monitor and use any data and information provided through the Equipment (including through ProductLink and/or VisionLink) or the
customer relationship in accordance with their respective Privacy Policies.
10. Exportation and Other Laws: Buyer represents and warrants that in exporting any Equipment, Buyer shall at all times comply with all
applicable U.S. export rules, regulations and other laws.  Buyer shall also comply with any and all rules, regulations and other laws relating, in
any way, to Equipment use, warnings, re-sale, dismantling and/or disposal.
11. Default, Remedies: Buyer shall be in default under this Agreement if Buyer fails to observe or perform any Buyer obligation under this
Agreement, is or becomes insolvent, is or becomes the subject of a tax lien, if an individual dies or if an entity dissolves, or becomes the
subject of a proceeding in bankruptcy, receivership, insolvency, or similar relief.  To the extent permitted by law, if Buyer defaults, Buyer shall
pay to NMC all fees and expenses incurred to enforce NMC's rights, including but not limited to court costs, attorney fees, and fees paid to
other professionals, arbitrators or agencies.
12. Assignment: NMC may freely assign its rights under this Agreement.  Buyer may assign rights under this Agreement only with NMC's
express written consent.  No such assignment shall reduce Buyer's obligations to NMC, and all Buyer obligations under this Agreement shall
bind Buyer's successors and permitted assigns.
13. General: (a) This Agreement's provisions shall be deemed severable.  Unenforceability of any provision shall not impair enforceability of
the other provisions. (b) No course of conduct or dealing and no NMC delay or failure in exercising any right or remedy shall rescind, modify or
waive any NMC right or protection under this Agreement.  All consents, waivers and authorizations by Buyer are irrevocable.  (c) Time is of the
essence of Buyer's obligations. (d) This Agreement constitutes the final written expression of the terms of agreement between the parties in
relation to this transaction and it is the complete and exclusive statement of those terms.  This Agreement supersedes and merges all prior or
collateral agreements, discussions and/or understandings (oral, written or of any other type) between the parties hereto.  No promises,
representations, warranties, inducements, covenants or undertakings not expressly set forth in this Agreement shall bind any party hereto. In
the event that Buyer issues a purchase order or similar document in connection with the purchase of the Equipment, its purpose will be for
Buyer’s internal documentation and no terms and conditions contained within it shall act to modify or supersede this Agreement or otherwise be
binding upon NMC (even if such terms state that they control over the terms of this Agreement or NMC signs such document) (e) This
Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the state of Nebraska without giving effect to its conflict of laws provisions. Unless waived in
writing by NMC, any action to interpret or enforce this Agreement, or otherwise pertaining to rights against Buyer or NMC encompassed by this
Agreement, or concerning its negotiation, implementation or Equipment, shall be brought in a state or federal court located in Douglas County,
Nebraska, the propriety of which jurisdiction is acknowledged and consented to by Buyer.  As to actions pertaining to this Agreement, Buyer
hereby waives any defense of inconvenient forum concerning said Nebraska court.  (f) If requested by NMC, Buyer also agrees to binding
arbitration in Douglas County, Nebraska, to settle any disputes, with such arbitration to be governed by the American Arbitration Association's
current rules.  (g) Waiver of any provision on any one occasion shall not be deemed to waive that provision on any other occasion.  This
Agreement may be modified or rescinded only by a written agreement signed by the party against whom the modification or rescission is sought
to be enforced.  (h) Buyer and, if Buyer is an entity, the individual signing for Buyer, jointly and severally warrant that said individual is
authorized by Buyer to bind Buyer to this Agreement.  (i) This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, all of which together shall constitute
the same document.
Exhibit A-Terms and Conditions for Equipment Sale
The following terms and conditions form a material component of the Sales Agreement ("Agreement") between NMC and the Buyer for sale of
the Equipment:
1. Definitions for this Agreement:  "Buyer" is the individual or entity listed as Buyer on this Agreement's front page.   "Delivery" shall occur
and Equipment shall be considered "delivered" when NMC delivers the Equipment to Buyer, Buyer’s agent or to the transportation company
that is to transport the Equipment to Buyer, whichever occurs first. "Equipment" is the equipment listed by model and description this
Agreement's front page.  “NMC” is Nebraska Machinery Company or any affiliated company of Nebraska Machinery Company selling the
Equipment under this Agreement.
2. Payment: Buyer shall pay NMC in full at the time Buyer signs this Agreement, unless otherwise specifically noted on this Agreement's front
page.
3. Excusable Delivery Delays: In the event of a delay in delivery, the delay shall be excused when caused by events beyond NMC’s
reasonable control (including by way of example, but not limitation, strike, accident, transportation interruption, actions of third parties and
reduction or unavailability of components or machinery at NMC's normal source of supply).  If such a delay continues for a period greater than
sixty (60) days, either party may, at its option, cancel this Agreement without liability (other than NMC’s return of the amounts paid by Buyer on
this Agreement).
4. Duration of Offer: Buyer's signature on this Agreement shall constitute an offer to buy the Equipment pursuant to this Agreement.  NMC’s
acceptance of the offer shall be indicated by its signature on this Agreement.  Buyer shall not revoke or countermand said offer for ten (10)
days from the date of this Agreement; thereafter it may be countermanded or revoked by written notice to NMC until the time, if any, of NMC
acceptance of this Agreement.  If NMC accepts, this Agreement (and any Security Agreement and/or promissory note signed by Buyer and
accepted by NMC in writing) shall constitute the entire understanding and agreement between the parties relating to the Equipment transaction.
5. Execution of Other Documents: Unless the Equipment is fully paid for in cash at or before delivery, NMC retains a Uniform Commercial
Code security interest in such Equipment together with all and any substitutions, additions, accessions, sale or other proceeds, and products
thereof and thereto. Buyer shall execute and deliver to NMC any evidences of indebtedness that NMC may require. Any note so taken by NMC
shall evidence indebtedness only and is not payment for the Equipment.
6. Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability: WITH REGARD TO NEW EQUIPMENT, THE APPLICABLE WARRANTY
PROVIDED BY THE EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURER SHALL APPLY IN LIEU OF ANY OTHER WARRANTIES WHETHER EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE).  IT IS UNDERSTOOD THAT UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES DOES NMC MAKE ANY WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER.
BUYER UNDERSTANDS AND AGREES THAT ANY USED EQUIPMENT IS SOLD  “AS IS” AND WITH ALL FAULTS OR DEFECTS.  NMC
SHALL NOT BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (EVEN IF
NMC HAS BEEN ADVISED SUCH DAMAGES ARE POSSIBLE), AND BUYER HEREBY WAIVES THEM TO THE EXTENT NOT
PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW.    
7. Taxes: Unless otherwise specifically stated on this Agreement's front page, quoted prices do not include sales or any other taxes. Buyer
shall be responsible for and promptly pay all taxes unless NMC approves a Buyer tax-exemption certificate.
8. Insurance: At all times after delivery, the Equipment shall be the responsibility solely of Buyer, and Buyer shall assume all risks of
Equipment damage, delay or loss.  Buyer shall maintain and provide proper proof to NMC of insurance on the Equipment, in amounts, form,
and with an insurer approved by NMC, adequate to protect NMC’s interest in the Equipment until such time as Buyer fully pays for the
Equipment.  NMC shall be named as additional insured, co-beneficiary and loss payee on any liability insurance for Equipment for the full
insurable value.  Until and unless Buyer obtains and proves such insurance, NMC may in NMC's discretion insure the Equipment for NMC’s
benefit.  In such event, Buyer shall pay NMC for insurance premiums.  
9. Data: Buyer authorizes NMC, NMC affiliates, any data processor contracted with by NMC, the Equipment manufacturers and their affiliates,
to access, monitor and use any data and information provided through the Equipment (including through ProductLink and/or VisionLink) or the
customer relationship in accordance with their respective Privacy Policies.
10. Exportation and Other Laws: Buyer represents and warrants that in exporting any Equipment, Buyer shall at all times comply with all
applicable U.S. export rules, regulations and other laws.  Buyer shall also comply with any and all rules, regulations and other laws relating, in
any way, to Equipment use, warnings, re-sale, dismantling and/or disposal.
11. Default, Remedies: Buyer shall be in default under this Agreement if Buyer fails to observe or perform any Buyer obligation under this
Agreement, is or becomes insolvent, is or becomes the subject of a tax lien, if an individual dies or if an entity dissolves, or becomes the
subject of a proceeding in bankruptcy, receivership, insolvency, or similar relief.  To the extent permitted by law, if Buyer defaults, Buyer shall
pay to NMC all fees and expenses incurred to enforce NMC's rights, including but not limited to court costs, attorney fees, and fees paid to
other professionals, arbitrators or agencies.
12. Assignment: NMC may freely assign its rights under this Agreement.  Buyer may assign rights under this Agreement only with NMC's
express written consent.  No such assignment shall reduce Buyer's obligations to NMC, and all Buyer obligations under this Agreement shall
bind Buyer's successors and permitted assigns.
13. General: (a) This Agreement's provisions shall be deemed severable.  Unenforceability of any provision shall not impair enforceability of
the other provisions. (b) No course of conduct or dealing and no NMC delay or failure in exercising any right or remedy shall rescind, modify or
waive any NMC right or protection under this Agreement.  All consents, waivers and authorizations by Buyer are irrevocable.  (c) Time is of the
essence of Buyer's obligations. (d) This Agreement constitutes the final written expression of the terms of agreement between the parties in
relation to this transaction and it is the complete and exclusive statement of those terms.  This Agreement supersedes and merges all prior or
collateral agreements, discussions and/or understandings (oral, written or of any other type) between the parties hereto.  No promises,
representations, warranties, inducements, covenants or undertakings not expressly set forth in this Agreement shall bind any party hereto. In
the event that Buyer issues a purchase order or similar document in connection with the purchase of the Equipment, its purpose will be for
Buyer’s internal documentation and no terms and conditions contained within it shall act to modify or supersede this Agreement or otherwise be
binding upon NMC (even if such terms state that they control over the terms of this Agreement or NMC signs such document) (e) This
Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the state of Nebraska without giving effect to its conflict of laws provisions. Unless waived in
writing by NMC, any action to interpret or enforce this Agreement, or otherwise pertaining to rights against Buyer or NMC encompassed by this
Agreement, or concerning its negotiation, implementation or Equipment, shall be brought in a state or federal court located in Douglas County,
Nebraska, the propriety of which jurisdiction is acknowledged and consented to by Buyer.  As to actions pertaining to this Agreement, Buyer
hereby waives any defense of inconvenient forum concerning said Nebraska court.  (f) If requested by NMC, Buyer also agrees to binding
arbitration in Douglas County, Nebraska, to settle any disputes, with such arbitration to be governed by the American Arbitration Association's
current rules.  (g) Waiver of any provision on any one occasion shall not be deemed to waive that provision on any other occasion.  This
Agreement may be modified or rescinded only by a written agreement signed by the party against whom the modification or rescission is sought
to be enforced.  (h) Buyer and, if Buyer is an entity, the individual signing for Buyer, jointly and severally warrant that said individual is
authorized by Buyer to bind Buyer to this Agreement.  (i) This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, all of which together shall constitute
the same document.
Exhibit A-Terms and Conditions for Equipment Sale
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-122 
 
A Resolution of the City Council of the City of Fremont, Nebraska, authorizing City Staff 
to sign a lease agreement with NMC for a Caterpillar Compact Track Loader Model 
259D3 for the amount of $5,500. 
 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and City Council accept the 
recommendation of the Utilities and Infrastructure Board to authorize City Staff to sign a 
lease agreement with NMC for the amount of $5,500 for a Caterpillar Compact Track 
Loader Model 259D3. 
 
 
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 9th DAY OF JUNE, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scott Getzschman, Mayor 
ATTEST: 
 
___________________________ 
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
STAFF REPORT  
 
TO: 
 
City of Fremont Mayor and City Council  
 
FROM: 
 
Utilities and Infrastructure Board 
 
 
 
Jeff Shanahan, Power Plant Superintendent 
 
DATE:  
June 9, 2020 
 
SUBJECT: 
Union Pacific Industrial Track Agreement  
 
Recommendation: Authorize Mayor to sign the Union Pacific Industrial Track Agreement. 
 
BACKGROUND:  
 
The City of Fremont, Department of Utilities, Lon D. Wright (LDW) Power Plant contracts 
with Union Pacific (UP) Railroad to deliver coal to the facility for the generation of electric 
energy. UP enters Fremont tracks and sets the cars for Fremont to unload. 
 
In 2019, UP informed LDW that they were moving from 123 coal car shipments to 150 
coal car shipments. Fremont is in the process of building additional ladder track to support 
the 150 coal car shipments. Because of this track expansion UP requires a revised 
Industrial Track Agreement between Union Pacific and the City of Fremont.  
 
The City of Fremont Legal team has reviewed this agreement, made comments and 
agreed upon terms with UP.  
 
This item was discussed at the May 12, 2020 Utilities and Infrastructure Board Meeting 
and the Board voted 5 to 0 that the City Council authorize the Mayor to sign the Industrial 
Track Agreement.  
 
FISCAL IMPACT: $0.00 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
1 
 
 
 
INDUSTRY TRACK AGREEMENT 
 
THIS AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made______________________, 20____ ("Effective 
Date"), between UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY, a Delaware corporation ("Railroad"), 
and CITY OF FREMONT, a Municipal Corporation of the State of Nebraska municipal corporation to 
be addressed at 400 East Military Avenue, Fremont, Nebraska 68025-5141 ("City"). 
 
RECITALS: 
 
City desires the construction, maintenance and operation of a 1,918-foot Track A, modifications 
to City Tracks 713, 714 and continued maintenance and operation of City Tracks 708, 709, 711 and 712 
(hereinafter collectively "Track") to establish rail service at or near Fremont, Dodge County, Nebraska  
(Circ 7: NX039, Yard 01, Mile Post 364) Railroad’s Blair Subdivision, as shown on the drawing dated 
May 18, 2020, attached hereto as Exhibit A, to which Railroad is agreeable subject to the terms and 
conditions of this Agreement. 
 
AGREEMENT: 
 
Article 1. 
TRACK IDENTIFICATION 
 
A. 
As used in this Agreement with respect to any particular track comprising all or part of 
the Track:  
 
“Point of Switch”: the beginning of the track. 
 
“Clearance Point”: the initial 13-foot clearance point on the track, which is the point on the 
centerline of the track that is thirteen (13) feet distant, measured at right angles, from the 
centerline of the adjacent track. 
 
“Railroad Property Line”: the point on the track that intersects the property line or right-of-way 
boundary line of Railroad. 
 
“Derail Device”: a track safety device in the rail designed to guide a railcar off the track at a 
selected spot as a means of protection against collisions or accidents.  
 
B. 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the following segments of Track 709 shall be 
identified as follows:  
 
 
Engineering Station 0+00 
 
the Point of Switch 
Engineering Station 1+62, 52+18 
the Clearance Point 
Engineering Station 1+82, 51+09 
the location of a Derail Device 
Engineering Station 2+72, 50+47 
the Railroad Property Line 
Engineering Station 53+74 
 
the end of track 
 
C. 
The parties acknowledge that the Track from time to time may be assigned different 
identifying descriptions, including without limitation the Railroad station name, subdivision, yard and 
track numbers (if applicable), and Milepost numbers, which shall not affect the applicability of this 
Agreement.  All references in this Agreement to the Track apply to the Track as constructed, even if it 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
2 
 
differs from its depiction on Exhibit A.  References in this Agreement to the Track also apply to 
rearrangements, reconstructions, extensions, or additions to the Track.  However, City must in all events 
obtain Railroad's prior written approval of the plans for any proposed Track changes. 
 
D. 
Railroad has the right at any time, but not the obligation, to rearrange or reconstruct the 
Track or modify its elevation in order to develop or modify Railroad property or tracks.  If Railroad 
chooses to exercise this option, Railroad shall bear all costs of any such change in the Track by Railroad, 
except that City shall bear the cost if the change is due to governmental requirements, safety needs, or any 
other cause beyond Railroad's reasonable control. 
 
Article 2. 
OWNERSHIP OF THE TRACK 
 
A. 
Railroad shall own the portion of Track 709 from the Point of Switch up to and including 
the Clearance Point at Engineering Station 1+62 and from the Clearance Point at Engineering Station 
52+18 to the end of the track ("Railroad Track Portion"). 
 
B. 
City shall own the portion of Track 709 between the Clearance Points and all portions of 
Tracks A, 708, 711, 712, 713 and 714 ("City Track Portion"). 
 
Article 3. 
MATERIALS SUPPLIED AND WORK PERFORMED BY CITY 
 
A. 
City, at its expense and subject to the prior approval of Railroad, will perform all grading 
and install all necessary drainage facilities required in connection with the construction of the Track, to 
the standards and satisfaction of Railroad, and arrange to modify any overhead and/or underground 
utilities to meet Railroad specifications. 
 
C. 
City, at its expense, will also perform City's work referenced in the Scope of Work 
Matrix shown on Exhibit A, and install walkways along both sides of the Track beyond the Clearance 
Point.  Track construction performed by City must conform to Railroad’s specifications for construction 
of industrial tracks. 
 
D. 
All construction work of City shall be completed within a reasonable time, and in any 
event within eighteen (18) months from the Effective Date, or within such further period of time as may 
be agreed in writing by the parties hereto. 
 
Article 4. 
USE AND OPERATION OF THE TRACK 
 
A. 
Railroad agrees to operate the Track, and to provide rail service to City over the Track 
under applicable tariffs or rail transportation contracts.  Railroad is not obligated to operate the Track or 
provide rail service to City when, as determined by Railroad in its sole and absolute discretion, the safe 
and/or efficient operation of the Track is or may be hindered by City's breach of this Agreement or by any 
cause beyond Railroad's reasonable control, including, without limitation, inclement weather, natural 
disaster, governmental action, terrorist attack, or labor dispute. 
 
B. 
Railroad hereby grants to City the non-exclusive right to use Railroad's property 
underlying that portion of the Track owned by City, if any, as described in Article – “OWNERSHIP OF 
THE TRACK,” being nine (9) feet on each side of such Track, for the purpose of constructing, 
maintaining, repairing, and reconstructing the City Track Portion and for storing railcars. 
 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
3 
 
C. 
Railroad grants City the right of ingress and egress to the Track over Railroad's property 
in the most practical means for the sole, specific purpose of City's fulfilling its obligations under this 
Agreement.  City shall not have any right to enter Railroad's property for the purpose of loading, 
unloading, or moving railcars unless that right is specified elsewhere in this Agreement. 
 
D. 
Railroad has the right to use the Track for Railroad's own purposes, including normal 
switching operations, setting out of bad order cars, and the temporary placement of vehicles and 
maintenance of way equipment, except to the extent Railroad's use would substantially interfere with rail 
service to City. 
 
E. 
City shall manage the inventory of inbound and outbound railcars on the Track so as not 
to adversely impact Railroad operations, and shall cooperate with Railroad operational requirements.  If 
City’s failure to manage its inventory of railcars on the Track adversely impacts Railroad’s operations, in 
addition to any other rights and remedies it may have, Railroad shall have the right to terminate this 
Agreement immediately upon notice to City. 
 
F. 
This Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions pertinent to the Track in connection 
with service provided by Railroad at this location.  It does not obligate Railroad to provide such service.  
Railroad’s service to, from, and at this location is governed by the terms of the applicable rail 
transportation agreement, circular, tariff, or other authority. 
 
G. 
If at any time in the course of providing service to City, Railroad operates on track at this 
location other than Track as defined in this Agreement, all terms and conditions of this Agreement shall 
be deemed to apply to such operation and any track so utilized.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, such 
operation shall be solely at Railroad’s discretion and nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to require 
Railroad to provide any service outside of the Track. 
 
H. 
City shall not use the Track for shipping, receiving, handling, or storage of cars 
containing hazardous materials. 
 
Article 5. 
TERM; TERMINATION 
 
A. 
The initial term of this Agreement ("Initial Term") begins on the Effective Date and 
extends for three (3) years.  Thereafter, this Agreement shall continue with automatic month-to-month 
extensions. 
 
B. 
City may terminate this Agreement at any time upon thirty (30) days' notice to Railroad. 
 
C. 
Railroad may terminate this Agreement at any time upon thirty (30) days' notice to City if 
continued operation of the Track (including but not limited to the switch connection itself) becomes 
impracticable due to abandonment or embargo of rail lines, or if the continued presence of the Track 
would interfere with Railroad operations (including but not limited to, line changes, construction of new 
lines, or Railroad installation of facilities.  In the event Railroad terminates this Agreement pursuant to 
this subparagraph, Railroad shall attempt to provide City a substitute switch connection if such a switch 
connection would be reasonably practicable, could be made safely, and would furnish sufficient business 
to justify the cost of construction and maintenance. 
 
D. 
Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, if at any time City continues in 
default in the performance of any covenant or promise in this Agreement for a period of thirty (30) days 
after notice from Railroad to City specifying such default, Railroad may, at its option, forthwith terminate 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
4 
 
this Agreement; provided, however, that if a default by City is deemed by Railroad to be unusually 
dangerous or hazardous, Railroad may immediately suspend its performance under this Agreement during 
the thirty (30)-day default cure period.  Such termination shall be effective on the thirty-first (31st) day 
after Railroad’s notice of default is deemed received as provided in Article – “NOTICES,” if default still 
exists, and no further notice of termination shall be required. 
 
E. 
Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, after the Initial Term Railroad shall 
have the following rights: (a) to terminate this Agreement at any time upon one hundred eighty (180) days 
notice to City, and (b) to deem this Agreement terminated, without notice to City, if at any time City 
ceases its possession of and sells or leases the City Track Portion or City’s facility that is served by the 
Track. 
 
F. 
Termination of this Agreement will not affect any of the rights, obligations, or liabilities 
of the parties that have accrued before termination. 
 
G. 
Upon termination of this Agreement for any reason, City shall vacate and surrender the 
quiet and peaceable possession of the right-of-way or other property owned by Railroad upon which the 
Track is located, if any.  Railroad shall have the right to remove the portion of the Track it owns.  Not 
later than the last day of the term of this Agreement, City, at its sole cost and expense, shall (a) remove 
from Railroad’s right-of-way or other property all portions of the Track owned by City, obstructions, 
contamination caused by or arising from the use of the Track for City’s purposes, and other property not 
belonging to or authorized by Railroad located thereon and (b) restore Railroad’s right-of-way or other 
property to as good a condition as it was in before the Effective Date.  If City fails to perform such 
removal and restoration to the satisfaction of Railroad, Railroad may perform the work at City’s expense, 
but in any event and subject to the terms of this Agreement, Railroad shall not be responsible for any 
liability, claims, loss, expenses, or damages incurred as a result of any act of City, including without 
limitation City’s contamination and/or failure to vacate, surrender, remove, or restore the Track or any 
real or personal property adjacent to, underneath, or next to the Track.  Any portion(s) of the Track owned 
by City and not removed as provided herein may, at Railroad’s election, be deemed abandoned and 
become the property of Railroad or Railroad, at City’s sole cost and expense, may remove such portion(s) 
of the Track from Railroad’s property and dispose of same and restore Railroad’s property.  If Railroad 
performs such track removal, disposal, and/or restoration, City shall reimburse Railroad within thirty (30) 
days of its receipt of billing from Railroad for all costs and expenses incurred by Railroad (less any 
resulting salvage value) in connection therewith. 
 
H. 
Notwithstanding the immediately preceding paragraph, upon notice to City, Railroad 
shall have the option to purchase at salvage value, prior to their removal, any or all portions of the Track 
and structures owned by City located on Railroad’s right-of-way or other property.  For purposes of this 
Agreement, “salvage value” shall mean the then fair market value of the components of the Track and 
structures if they were removed and sold, net of costs of removal and sale. 
 
Article 6. 
PERMITS AND PROPERTY 
 
City warrants that it and/or its predecessor(s), at no expense to Railroad, have obtained and shall 
maintain in force, all governmental permits and approvals and all property rights now or in the future 
necessary for the construction, maintenance, and operation of all portions of the Track located off 
Railroad's property, if any. 
 
 
 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
5 
 
Article 7. 
MAINTENANCE BY RAILROAD 
 
A. 
Railroad, at Railroad's expense, shall inspect and maintain the Railroad Track Portion 
(including, without limitation, rail, ties, ballast and other track material, and all track appurtenances). 
 
B. 
Railroad, at Railroad's expense, shall maintain any wayside signal system (including, 
without limitation, leaving signals, switch circuit controllers, power switches and derails, and Positive 
Train Control System components) that (a) is located within Railroad’s right of way or within a Control 
Point controlled and dispatched remotely by Railroad or (b) is located on City property and comprises 
part of Railroad’s signal circuits.  For purposes of the foregoing, a “Control Point” is a location where the 
signals and/or switches of a traffic control system are operated and/or controlled from a distant location. 
 
C. 
Railroad shall maintain any road crossing warning device that protects any of the 
Railroad Track Portion at Railroad expense if such device protects only Railroad-owned Track, and at 
City expense on a pro rata basis to the extent such device also protects any track owned by City.  In no 
event shall Railroad be responsible for maintaining road crossing warning devices that do not protect any 
of the Railroad Track Portion. 
 
D. 
City grants Railroad the right of ingress and egress over City’s property as reasonably 
necessary to allow Railroad to perform maintenance under this Article.  City shall not interfere with 
Railroad’s maintenance activities hereunder, nor with Railroad signal operation. 
 
Article 8. 
MAINTENANCE BY CITY 
 
A. 
City, at City's expense, shall inspect and maintain the City Track Portion (including, 
without limitation, rail, ties, ballast and other track material, crossing surface and signals at any 
intersection of the track with a public road, and all track appurtenances except for those signal systems to 
be maintained by Railroad as provided in Article – “MAINTENANCE BY RAILROAD”).  This 
obligation shall include, without limitation, maintenance required as a result of normal wear and tear, 
repairs, and track reconstruction as necessary.  All track maintained by City hereunder shall be 
maintained to at least Federal Railroad Administration Class 1 track standards pursuant to 49 C.F.R. 
Part 213 or such replacement standards as in effect from time to time. 
 
B. 
City shall maintain in a safe condition the property under and adjacent to the City Track 
and City property upon which Railroad's employees or contractors may enter pursuant to this Agreement, 
including, without limitation, removal of snow, ice, vegetation, and other substances and/or materials that 
might create a hazardous or unsafe condition, elimination of any tripping or slipping hazards, and 
maintenance of proper drainage and grading to permit safe operation over the Track. 
 
C. 
Maintenance, repairs, and any track reconstruction performed by City must conform to 
Railroad's standards. 
 
Article 9. 
SAFETY; COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS 
 
A. 
Clearances/Impairments.  Except as otherwise provided elsewhere in this Agreement, 
City must not construct, maintain, place, or allow the construction or placement of, any structure or object 
(including, without limitation, platforms, fences, vehicles, equipment, and when open or closed, gates, 
doors, and windows) closer to the Track than the standard clearance requirements of Railroad without 
Railroad's prior written consent as evidenced by an amendment or supplement to this Agreement.  The 
standard clearances of Railroad (“Standard Clearances”) are (a) horizontally, nine (9) feet from the 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
6 
 
centerline of the Track, and increased one and one-half inches (1-1/2’’) for each degree of curvature of 
the Track, and (b) vertically, twenty-three feet four inches (23’4”) above the top of the rail of the Track.  
Railroad hereby consents to City’s impairment of the Standard Clearances by use of a portable 
loading/unloading device, provided that (a) the device when not in use is moved to a safe distance beyond 
the Standard Clearances, (b) all fallen debris from the operation of the device within the Standard 
Clearances shall be immediately cleaned up and properly disposed of, (c) the device is maintained in a 
safe operable condition, and (d) City shall be solely responsible for all damages or injuries arising from 
the use of any such device, including without limitation from fallen debris, in accordance with  Article – 
“LIABILITY” of this Agreement.  Any moveable equipment, including, but not limited to, dock plates 
and loading or unloading spouts or equipment, that impairs the Standard Clearances requirements may be 
used only when the rail car is stationary, and when not in use must be securely stored or fastened so as not 
to violate Standard Clearances requirements. 
 
B. 
Facilities.  Except as otherwise provided elsewhere in this Agreement, City must not 
construct, maintain, or place or allow the construction, maintenance, or placement of, any installations 
(including, without limitation, pits, load out facilities, buildings, road crossings, beams, pipes, or wires) 
over or under the Track without Railroad’s prior written consent as evidenced by an amendment or 
supplement to this Agreement. 
 
C. 
Protection of Railroad Employees/Contractors. 
 
1. 
City shall ensure that Railroad employees and contractors on or near City’s 
property pursuant to this Agreement are not exposed to any unsafe, hazardous, or harmful 
conditions on or emanating from City’s property, including, without limitation, exposure, release, 
or emission of dust or chemicals.  If City becomes aware of the presence of any such condition 
and is unable to immediately eliminate the condition, then City shall immediately notify 
Railroad’s Response Management Communication Center (“RMCC”) of the condition by 
telephone to 1-888-877-7267.  Providing the notification will not relieve City of its obligations 
and liabilities for the condition. 
 
2. 
City shall provide and maintain a clear and safe walkway for Railroad employees 
and contractors along both sides of the City Track Portion. 
 
D. 
City to Train and Oversee Employees/Contractors.  City shall train and oversee its 
employees, contractors, and agents as to proper and safe working practices to follow when performing 
any work in connection with this Agreement, including, without limitation, any work associated with 
Railroad serving City over the Track. 
 
E. 
Intraplant Switching.  City must not perform any intraplant switching, unless elsewhere 
specifically authorized in this Agreement.  Intraplant switching means any movement of rail cars on the 
Track by City. 
 
F. 
Fire Precautions and Vegetation Control.  City must not allow any fire hazards to exist on 
City’s property that might endanger the Track or operations on the Track.  Without limitation of the 
preceding sentence, City must not place, or allow to be placed, any flammable material within ten (10) 
feet of centerline of the Track.  City shall remove or otherwise control vegetation adjacent to the Track in 
accordance with applicable local, state, and federal standards and so that it does not constitute a fire 
hazard or impair sight lines from the train. 
 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
7 
 
G. 
Telecommunications and Fiber Optic Cable Systems.  Telecommunications and fiber 
optic cable systems may be buried on Railroad's property.  Prior to undertaking work on Railroad's 
property, City shall telephone Railroad during normal business hours (7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., Central 
Time, Monday through Friday, except holidays) at 1-800-336-9193 (also a 24-hour, 7-day number for 
emergency calls) to determine if telecommunications or fiber optic cable are buried anywhere on 
Railroad's property to be used by City.  If it is, City will telephone the telecommunication company(ies) 
involved, arrange for a cable locator, and make arrangements for relocation or other protection of the 
cable and will commence no work on Railroad's property until all such protection or relocation has been 
accomplished. 
 
H. 
Notice and Flagging. 
 
1. 
Prior to entering Railroad's right-of-way or other property for the purpose of 
performing any construction, reconstruction, maintenance, or repair of the Track as set forth in 
this Agreement, and/or constructing additional track segments connecting to the Track, City 
and/or its contractors shall first advise Railroad's local engineering field manager at least ten (10) 
working days in advance of such work so that Railroad can determine if flagging and/or other 
protection is needed.  If Railroad deems that flagging and/or other protection is needed, no work 
of any kind shall be performed, and no person, equipment, machinery, tool, material, vehicle, or 
thing shall be located, operated, placed, or stored within 25 feet of the Track or any other track of 
Railroad at any time, for any reason, unless and until a Railroad flagman is provided to watch for 
trains.  In case of a need to perform emergency repair of the Track, City shall telephone 
Railroad’s RMCC at 1-888-877-7267, and the parties shall cooperate reasonably to address the 
emergency appropriately. 
 
2. 
If flagging or other special protective or safety measures are performed by 
Railroad, such services will be provided at City's expense with the understanding that if Railroad 
provides any flagging or other services, City shall not be relieved of any of its responsibilities or 
liabilities under this Agreement, including without limitation liabilities arising out of or 
connected to City notifications under this Agreement. 
 
3. 
City shall promptly pay to Railroad all charges connected with such services 
within thirty (30) days after presentation of a bill.  The rate of pay per hour for each flagman will 
be the prevailing hourly rate in effect for an eight-hour day for the class of flagman used during 
regularly assigned hours and overtime in accordance with union collective bargaining agreements 
and schedules in effect at the time the work is performed.  In addition to the cost of such labor, a 
composite charge for vacation, holiday, health and welfare, supplemental sickness, Railroad 
Retirement and Unemployment Compensation, supplemental pension, Employer's Liability and 
Property Damage, and Administration will be included, computed on actual payroll.  The 
composite charge will be the prevailing composite charge in effect on the day that the flagging is 
provided.  One and one-half times the current hourly rate is paid for overtime, Saturdays, and 
Sundays; two and one-half times current hourly rate is paid for holidays.  Wage rates are subject 
to change at any time, by law or by agreement between Railroad and its employees, and may be 
retroactive as a result of negotiations or a ruling of an authorized governmental agency.  
Additional charges on labor are also subject to change.  If the wage rate or additional charges are 
changed, City shall pay on the basis of the new rates and charges.  Reimbursement to Railroad 
will be required covering the full eight-hour day during which any flagman is furnished, unless 
the flagman can be assigned to other Railroad work during a portion of such day, in which event 
reimbursement will not be required for the portion of the day during which the flagman is 
engaged in other Railroad work.  Reimbursement will also be required for any day not actually 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
8 
 
worked by said flagman following the flagman assignment to work on the project for which 
Railroad is required to pay the flagman and which could not reasonably be avoided by Railroad 
by assignment of such flagman to other work, even though City and/or City's contractors may not 
be working during such time.  When it becomes necessary for Railroad to bulletin and assign an 
employee to a flagging position in compliance with union collective bargaining agreements, City 
or City's contractors must provide Railroad a minimum of five (5) days notice prior to the 
cessation of the need for a flagman.  If five (5) days notice of cessation is not given, City will still 
be required to pay flagging charges for the five (5) day notice period required by union agreement 
to be given to the employee, even though flagging is not required for that period.  An additional 
ten (10) days notice must then be given to Railroad if flagging services are needed again after 
such five (5) day cessation notice has been given to Railroad. 
 
4. 
City shall be permitted to hire a private contractor to perform flagging or other 
special protective or safety measures (such private contractor being commonly known in the 
railroad City as a contractor-in-charge (“CIC”)) in lieu of Railroad providing such services or in 
concert with Railroad providing such services, subject to prior written approval by Railroad, 
which approval shall be in Railroad’s sole and absolute discretion.  If Railroad agrees to permit 
City to utilize a CIC pursuant to the preceding sentence, City shall obtain Railroad’s prior 
approval in writing for each of the following items, as determined in all respects in Railroad’s 
sole and absolute discretion: (i) the identity of the third-party performing the role of CIC; (ii) the 
scope of the services to be performed for the project by the approved CIC; and (iii) any other 
terms and conditions governing such services to be provided by the CIC.  If flagging or other 
special protective or safety measures are performed by an approved CIC, City shall be solely 
responsible for (and shall timely pay such CIC for) its services.  Railroad reserves the right to 
rescind any approval pursuant to this paragraph, in whole or in part, at any time, as determined in 
Railroad’s sole and absolute discretion. 
 
I. 
Compliance with Laws. 
 
1. 
City shall comply with all applicable ordinances, regulations, statutes, rules, 
decisions, and orders (including, but not limited to, those relating to safety, zoning, rail 
operations, air and water quality, noise, hazardous substances, hazardous materials, and 
hazardous wastes) issued by any court or federal, state, or local governmental entity, including, 
without limitation, the federal Department of Transportation, the Federal Railroad 
Administration, and the federal Environmental Protection Agency ("Laws").  City shall be solely 
responsible for securing and maintaining, at its expense, any necessary permits, licenses, and 
approvals required by any Laws for City’s operations. 
 
2. 
If at any time City is not in full compliance with any Laws, Railroad, after 
notifying City of its noncompliance and City’s failure to correct such noncompliance within a 
timeframe that is satisfactory to regulatory and/or other legal authorities, may choose at its sole 
discretion and without assuming any legal, common law, or statutory obligation, to take whatever 
action is necessary to bring the Track and any Railroad property affected by such noncompliance 
into compliance with such Laws; provided, however, that if City’s failure to comply with the 
Laws interferes with, obstructs, or endangers Railroad mainline or yard operations in any way, 
Railroad may initiate compliance action immediately.  City shall reimburse Railroad for all costs 
(including without limitation consulting, engineering, clean-up, disposal, legal costs and 
attorneys’ fees, fines, and penalties) incurred by Railroad in complying with, abating a violation 
of, or defending any claim of violation of such Laws. 
 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
9 
 
J. 
Minimum Standards; City Responsibility.  The provisions in this Agreement relating to 
safety are minimum standards only, and do not relieve City of the obligation to comply with Laws or to 
conduct its operations and maintain its property in a safe manner and free from hazards to human beings 
and the environment.  City in all events is solely responsible for the safety of its operations, its 
employees, and its property, and no consent, approval, review, waiver, investigation, observation, 
knowledge, or advice of or by Railroad, including any action undertaken with the authority set forth in 
this Agreement, will relieve City of such responsibility. 
 
Article 10. 
LIABILITY 
 
A. 
FOR PURPOSES OF THIS ARTICLE, THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS 
SHALL APPLY: 
 
"RAILROAD":  RAILROAD AND ITS OFFICERS, AGENTS, AND EMPLOYEES. 
 
"CITY":  CITY AND ITS OFFICERS, AGENTS, AND EMPLOYEES. 
 
"PARTY":  RAILROAD OR CITY. 
 
"LOSS":  LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO THE PROPERTY OF ANY THIRD PERSON OR 
PARTY (INCLUDING ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS), INJURY OR DEATH OF ANY 
THIRD PERSON OR PARTY, AND/OR ANY REGULATORY CHARGE, FINE OR 
PENALTY.  "LOSS" SHALL ALSO INCLUDE, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE 
FOLLOWING EXPENSES INCURRED BY A PARTY:  COSTS, EXPENSES, THE COST 
OF DEFENDING LITIGATION OR A REGULATORY PROCEEDING, ATTORNEYS' 
FEES, EXPERT WITNESS FEES, COURT COSTS, ARBITRATION OR MEDIATION 
COSTS, 
MEDIATOR 
AND/OR 
ARBITRATOR 
FEES, 
AMOUNTS 
PAID 
IN 
SETTLEMENT, THE AMOUNT OF A JUDGMENT, PRE-JUDGMENT AND POST-
JUDGMENT INTEREST, AND COSTS OF RESPONSE (INCLUDING ANALYTICAL, 
REMEDIATION, AND GOVERNMENTAL OVERSIGHT COSTS) ARISING OUT OF 
ANY INCIDENT INVOLVING THE RELEASE OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES, 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS, OR HAZARDOUS WASTES. 
 
B. 
EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SPECIFIED IN THIS AGREEMENT, ALL LOSS 
RELATED TO THE CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, USE, PRESENCE, OR 
REMOVAL OF THE TRACK SHALL BE ALLOCATED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
1. 
EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN SUBARTICLE B.4 OF THIS ARTICLE – 
“LIABILITY” BELOW, – RAILROAD SHALL DEFEND AND INDEMNIFY CITY AND 
HOLD IT HARMLESS FROM AND AGAINST ANY AND ALL CLAIMS FOR LOSS 
ARISING OUT OF OR CONNECTED TO THE NEGLIGENT ACTS OR OMISSIONS 
OF RAILROAD. 
 
2. 
NOTWITHSTANDING 
ANY 
OTHER 
PROVISION 
OF 
THIS 
AGREEMENT, CITY SHALL DEFEND AND INDEMNIFY RAILROAD AND HOLD IT 
HARMLESS FROM AND AGAINST ANY AND ALL CLAIMS FOR LOSS ARISING 
OUT OF OR CONNECTED TO THE NEGLIGENT ACTS OR OMISSIONS OF CITY. 
 
3. 
EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN SUBARTICLE B.4 OF THIS ARTICLE – 
“LIABILITY” BELOW, RAILROAD AND CITY SHALL EACH PAY THEIR 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
10 
 
PROPORTIONATE SHARE OF ANY AND ALL CLAIMS FOR LOSS ARISING OUT 
OF OR CONNECTED TO THE JOINT OR CONCURRING NEGLIGENCE OF 
RAILROAD AND CITY, SUCH PROPORTIONATE SHARE TO BE DETERMINED BY 
THE COMPARATIVE FAULT OF EACH PARTY;  PROVIDED, HOWEVER, THAT 
NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED AS IMPAIRING THE 
RIGHT OF EITHER PARTY TO SEEK CONTRIBUTION OR INDEMNIFICATION 
FROM A THIRD PERSON. 
 
4. 
NOTWITHSTANDING 
ANY 
OTHER 
PROVISION 
OF 
THIS 
AGREEMENT, CITY SHALL DEFEND AND INDEMNIFY RAILROAD AND HOLD IT 
HARMLESS FROM AND AGAINST ANY LOSS ARISING OUT OF OR CONNECTED 
TO THE FOLLOWING (REGARDLESS OF THE EXTENT OF RAILROAD’S OR A 
THIRD PARTY’S FAULT OR LIABILITY): 
 
a. 
ANY IMPAIRMENT OF CLEARANCES OR INTRAPLANT 
SWITCHING BY CITY, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER IT IS A BREACH OF 
THIS AGREEMENT OR HAS BEEN CONSENTED TO OR WAIVED BY 
RAILROAD; 
 
b. 
ANY PRIVATE OR PUBLIC ROAD CROSSING OVER ANY 
CITY TRACK PORTION OR ANY LEASED TRACK REGARDLESS OF 
WHETHER IT IS A BREACH OF THIS AGREEMENT OR HAS BEEN 
CONSENTED TO OR WAIVED BY RAILROAD; 
 
c. 
ANY EXPOSURE OF ANY RAILROAD EMPLOYEE OR 
CONTRACTOR 
TO 
ANY 
UNSAFE, 
HAZARDOUS, 
OR 
HARMFUL 
CONDITION ON OR EMANATING FROM CITY’S PROPERTY; 
 
d. 
ANY EMISSION, DISCHARGE, LEAK, SPILL, OR OTHER 
FORM 
OF 
RELEASE, 
AS 
THAT 
TERM 
IS 
DEFINED 
BY 
THE 
COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSE, COMPENSATION AND 
LIABILITY ACT OF 1980, OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES, HAZARDOUS 
MATERIALS, OR HAZARDOUS WASTES SHIPPED, RECEIVED, OR STORED 
BY CITY, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER SUCH SHIPMENT, RECEIPT, OR 
STORAGE IS A BREACH OF THIS AGREEMENT OR HAS BEEN 
CONSENTED TO OR WAIVED BY RAILROAD; 
 
e. 
ANY DAMAGE TO RAIL EQUIPMENT ON THE TRACK, OR 
CARGO OR COMMODITY STORED IN RAILCARS ON THE TRACK 
(EXCLUDING THOSE RAILCARS PLACED BY RAILROAD PURSUANT TO 
ARTICLE – “USE AND OPERATION OF THE TRACK”) RESULTING FROM 
ANY ACT OR EVENT BEYOND THE CONTROL OF RAILROAD, INCLUDING 
WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY ACT OF GOD AND SPECIFICALLY 
INCLUDING WATER DAMAGE FROM WHATEVER SOURCE; OR 
 
f. 
THIRD PARTY USE OF ALL OR A PORTION OF THE TRACK 
WITHOUT COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE – “ASSIGNMENT; USE BY 
THIRD PARTIES.” 
 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
11 
 
C. 
THE RIGHT TO INDEMNIFICATION UNDER THIS ARTICLE – “LIABILITY” 
WILL ACCRUE UPON THE LATER OF THE OCCURRENCE OF THE EVENT GIVING RISE 
TO THE LOSS OR THE ASSERTION BY A THIRD PARTY OF A CLAIM FOR A LOSS. 
 
D. 
CITY EXPRESSLY ASSUMES POTENTIAL LIABILITY UNDER THIS 
ARTICLE – “LIABILITY” FOR ACTIONS BROUGHT BY CITY'S OWN EMPLOYEES, AND 
HEREBY AGREES TO DEFEND, INDEMNIFY, AND HOLD HARMLESS RAILROAD FOR 
ANY LOSS TO CITY’S EMPLOYEES REGARDLESS OF FAULT.  
CITY 
HEREBY 
WAIVES ANY IMMUNITY IT MAY HAVE UNDER WORKERS' COMPENSATION OR 
INDUSTRIAL INSURANCE ACTS TO INDEMNIFY RAILROAD UNDER THIS –ARTICLE – 
“LIABILITY.”  CITY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THIS WAIVER WAS MUTUALLY 
NEGOTIATED BY THE PARTIES. 
 
E. 
NO COURT OR JURY FINDINGS IN ANY EMPLOYEE'S SUIT UNDER THE 
FEDERAL EMPLOYER'S LIABILITY ACT AGAINST RAILROAD MAY BE USED BY CITY 
IN ANY ATTEMPT TO ASSERT LIABILITY AGAINST RAILROAD. 
 
F. 
NO PROVISION OF THIS AGREEMENT WITH RESPECT TO INSURANCE 
WILL LIMIT THE SCOPE OR EXTENT OF THE INDEMNITY UNDER THIS ARTICLE – 
“LIABILITY” AND CITY UNDERSTANDS AND ACCEPTS THAT THE TERMS OF THIS 
ARTICLE ARE WHOLLY SEPARATE FROM AND INDEPENDENT OF THE TERMS OF 
ARTICLE – “INSURANCE.” 
 
Article 11. 
INSURANCE 
 
A. 
Irrespective of and in addition to any indemnity provisions hereof, before the term of this 
Agreement begins, City, at its sole expense, shall provide to Railroad prior to execution, and subsequently 
upon request, a certificate issued by its insurance carrier evidencing the insurance coverage required 
under Exhibit B attached and by reference made a part of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Not more frequently than once every two (2) years, Railroad has the right to modify 
reasonably the required insurance coverage to reflect then-current risk management practices in the 
railroad City and underwriting practices in the insurance City. 
 
C. 
City understands and accepts that the terms of this Article are wholly separate from and 
independent of the terms of Article -- “LIABILITY.” 
 
Article 12. 
PAYMENT OF INVOICES; COSTS AND EXPENSES 
 
A. 
Cost(s) and expense(s) payable by City hereunder include without limitation direct and 
indirect labor and material costs including all then-current assignable Railroad cost additives, and material 
at then-current values when and where used.  Invoices shall be due thirty (30) days after invoice date.  
Invoices not paid within thirty (30) days are subject to interest at the then-current delinquency rate 
charged by Railroad. 
 
B. 
City shall pay Railroad all accessorial charges that, pursuant to UP-6004 series tariff 
publications or any successor publications, are assessed on railcars destined to or originating from the 
Track, including, but not limited to, demurrage, switching, reconsignments, and weighing charges. 
 
 
 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
12 
 
Article 13. 
NOTICES 
 
Any notice or other communication required or permitted to be given under this Agreement must 
be in writing and (a) personally delivered; (b) delivered by a reputable overnight courier; or (c) delivered 
by certified mail, return receipt requested and deposited in the U.S. Mail, postage prepaid.  Facsimile 
notices are valid only if actually received by the individual to whom addressed, and followed by delivery 
of actual notice in the manner described above within three (3) business days thereafter.  Notices will be 
deemed received at the earlier of actual receipt, or one (1) business day after deposit with an overnight 
courier as evidenced by a receipt of deposit, or three (3) business days after deposit in the U.S. Mail as 
evidenced by a return receipt.  Notices must be directed to the parties at their respective addresses shown 
below, or such other address as either party may, from time to time, specify in writing to the other in the 
manner described above: 
 
If to Railroad: UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY 
 
 
ATTN: Real Estate Folder 3203-51 
 
 
1400 Douglas Street, STOP 1690 
 
 
Omaha, Nebraska  68179-1690 
 
 
Facsimile:   (402) 501-0340 
 
With copy to: UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY 
 
 
ATTN:  Law Department - Industrial Track 
 
 
1400 Douglas Street, STOP 1580 
 
 
Omaha, Nebraska  68179-1580 
 
 
Facsimile:   (402) 501-0132 
 
If to City: 
CITY OF FREMONT  
 
 
400 East Military Avenue 
 
 
Fremont, Nebraska 68025-5141 
Facsimile:   (402) 727-2667 
 
With copy to: CITY OF FREMONT 
 
 
ATTN:  Fremont City Attorney 
400 East Military Avenue 
 
 
Fremont, Nebraska 68025-5141 
Facsimile:   (402) 727-2667 
 
Article 14. 
ASSIGNMENT; USE BY THIRD PARTIES 
 
A. 
City must not assign this Agreement or permit use of the Track by any person or entity 
other than City and Railroad without the prior written consent of Railroad.  Railroad has the right to 
withhold its consent in its sole and absolute discretion.  Railroad may terminate this Agreement 
immediately upon notice to City for any departure from the terms of this SubArticle. 
 
B. 
Without limitation of the immediately preceding SubArticle, City shall immediately 
notify Railroad of any sale or lease of all or any portion of the City Track Portion or of City's facility that 
is served by the Track.  If Railroad consents to the joint use of the Track by City's lessee or other user, 
then City and City's lessee or other user will be required to enter into Railroad's then-current form of Joint 
Use Agreement. 
 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
13 
 
C. 
Subject to the two immediately preceding SubArticles, this Agreement binds and benefits 
the heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns of Railroad and City. 
 
Article 15. 
ATTORNEYS’ FEES 
 
If either party retains an attorney to enforce this Agreement, the prevailing party is entitled to 
recover reasonable attorneys' fees to the extent allowed by applicable law. 
 
Article 16. 
WAIVER OF BREACH; SAVINGS 
 
Any waiver by either party of any breach by the other of this Agreement will not affect or impair 
rights arising from any other or subsequent breach.  If any one or more of the provisions in this 
Agreement shall be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any respect under any applicable law: (a) the 
validity, legality, and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or 
impaired, and (b) to the fullest extent possible and permitted by law, the provisions of this Agreement 
shall be construed so as to give a maximum effect to the intent manifested by the provision held to be 
invalid, illegal, or unenforceable. 
 
Article 17. 
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF RAILROAD 
 
If any of the rights and obligations of Railroad under this Agreement are substantially and 
negatively affected by any changes in the Laws applicable to this Agreement, whether statutory, 
regulatory, or under federal or state judicial precedent, then Railroad may require City to enter into an 
amendment to this Agreement to eliminate the negative effect on Railroad's rights and obligations to the 
extent reasonably possible. 
 
Article 18. 
ENTIRE AGREEMENT 
 
This Agreement, including its Exhibits,  along with any license agreements or leases applicable to 
any installation over, under, or near the Track, is the entire agreement between the parties with respect to 
the subject matter of this Agreement, and supersedes all oral agreements and prior written agreements 
between the parties pertaining to this transaction.  The Recitals are hereby incorporated into this 
Agreement and shall be deemed a part hereof. This Agreement may be amended only by a written 
instrument signed by City and Railroad. 
 
Article 19. 
GOVERNING LAW 
 
This Agreement and any dispute arising from this Agreement will be governed by the laws of the 
state in which the Track is located without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.  Notwithstanding 
anything to the contrary set forth in the foregoing sentence or elsewhere in this Agreement, federal law 
shall control on all subjects preempted by federal law.  For purposes of clarity, Railroad and City each 
agree that nothing in this Agreement is meant to be, nor shall be interpreted to be, a waiver of principles 
of legal preemption or preclusion that may apply to Railroad because of its status as a common carrier 
regulated by the federal government, including without limitation the Surface Transportation Board and 
the FRA. 
 
Article 20. 
DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
 
A. 
Disputes.  Any dispute arising under or related to this Agreement shall be resolved as set 
out below. 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
14 
 
 
B. 
Informal Resolution.  If either party believes a dispute exists, that party may notify the 
other party, pursuant to the Article – “NOTICE,” that a dispute exists and of the nature of the dispute.  
The other party shall respond within ten (10) business days after notice, and notify the complaining party 
of its position in response and of its agreement to meet and attempt in good faith to resolve the dispute.   
If the other party responds timely and agrees to meet, the parties’ authorized representatives and counsel 
shall meet within ten (10) business days after the response date and confer in good faith and exercise 
reasonable efforts to resolve the dispute.  If the parties cannot informally resolve the dispute, then they are 
free to exercise their rights as they deem appropriate, including without limitation to initiate litigation. 
 
Article 21. 
USE BY OTHER RAILROADS 
 
This Agreement is made for the benefit of such other railroads, if any, that either by agreement 
with Railroad or order of competent public authority have the right to use the Track to provide service to 
City at City's request, all of which railroads shall be deemed "Railroad" under this Agreement with all 
rights as a party hereto, including rights of enforcement. 
 
Article 22. 
ADJACENT TRACK RIGHTS 
 
As a condition to Railroad serving City over the Track, if any of the City Track Portion does not 
connect directly to Railroad-owned track, City shall obtain and keep in effect during the term of this 
Agreement, at no charge to Railroad, any permission required for Railroad to use the third party track and 
underlying property adjacent to the Railroad Track Portion and the City Track Portion to allow Railroad 
to serve City over the Track.  If the aforesaid third party track and property are not adequately maintained, 
or if the required permission for any reason is not in effect, Railroad shall have no liability for any 
resulting adverse impact on its service to City.  City shall defend and indemnify Railroad and hold 
Railroad harmless from and against any and all claims, damages, expenses, lawsuits, and proceedings 
arising out of or connected to Railroad’s use of third party track to serve City over the Track, including 
without limitation any alleged trespass or other violation of a property right, and/or any derailment. 
 
Article 23. 
TRACK SAFETY DEVICE – DERAILS 
 
A. 
Unless otherwise notified by Railroad, City at its sole cost shall maintain all Derail 
Devices on the City Track Portion or Leased Track, if any, including without limitation those required 
pursuant to the SubArticle immediately below, in accordance with Article – “MAINTENANCE BY 
CITY.” 
 
B. 
Whether or not Derail Device(s) are on the Track, Railroad in the sole discretion of its 
Operating personnel at any time may require City to install new or replace existing Derail Device(s) on 
the Track.  In such event, upon thirty (30) days notice from Railroad, City at its sole cost shall install or 
cause to be installed the required replacement or additional Derail Device(s) of a type and size, and in 
location(s) on the City Track Portion or Leased Track specified by Railroad.   Installation or replacement 
of Derail Device(s) on the Railroad Track Portion shall be accomplished by Railroad at City expense.  
City shall cooperate at all times with Railroad personnel regarding inspecting, repairing, replacing and 
installing Derail Device(s) on the Track. 
 
Article 24. 
USE OF DIGITAL IMAGERY 
 
City acknowledges that if it or its consultant provided to Railroad digital imagery depicting the 
Track (the "Digital Imagery"), City authorized Railroad to use the Digital Imagery in the Exhibit A.  City 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
15 
 
represents and warrants that through a license or otherwise, it has the right to use the Digital Imagery and 
to permit Railroad to use the Digital Imagery in said manner. 
 
Article 25. 
CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
For the term of this Agreement and for thirty six (36) months thereafter, no party may disclose 
any of the terms of this Agreement to any non-party without the prior written consent of the other party 
except (1) as required by law, (2) to a corporate parent, subsidiary, or affiliate or (3) to its auditor or legal 
counsel. Each party to this Agreement agrees to indemnify the other from and against any damage(s) 
suffered by a party as a result of disclosure by a party hereto, or by its auditor or counsel of any of the 
terms or conditions in violation of this provision. In the event a party determines that the terms of the 
Agreement have been disclosed to a non-party without the prior written consent of the non-disclosing 
party, then the non-disclosing party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement immediately upon 
notice to the other party, and to seek whatever remedies it may have at law or in equity. 
 
Article 26. 
SIGNATURE IN COUNTERPARTS 
 
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered 
shall be deemed to be an original and all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same 
agreement.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by facsimile or 
other electronic means shall be effective as the delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this 
Agreement.  The parties agree that such electronically exchanged or stored copies will be enforceable as 
original documents. 
 
Article 27. 
SPECIAL PROVISIONS 
 
A. PUBLIC ROAD CROSSING.  Railroad hereby consents to City’s impairment of the 
standard clearances defined above in this Agreement by use of that one public road crossing 
as shown on Exhibit A; PROVIDED (i) as to such crossing it is or has been installed, at 
City’s expense,  in accordance with plans approved in writing by Railroad, (ii) City shall 
install, at City’s expense, any and all crossing protection signs or devices as may be required 
by any Laws governing same, (iii) City has secured, shall maintain and shall comply with the 
terms of any and all permits as may be required by any Laws governing same, (iv) the 
crossing is maintained in a safe operable condition and (v) City shall be solely responsible for 
all damages or injuries arising from the use of the crossing howsoever in accordance with 
Article – “LIABILITY” of this Agreement as it relates to clearance impairments. 
 
B. PRIVATE ROAD CROSSING.  Railroad hereby consents to City’s use of a private road 
crossing as shown on Exhibit A; PROVIDED (i) the crossing is or has been installed, at 
City’s expense,  in accordance with plans approved in writing by Railroad, (ii) City shall 
install, at City’s expense, any and all crossing protection signs or devices as may be required 
by any Laws governing same, (iii) the crossing is maintained in a safe operable condition and 
(iv) City shall be solely responsible for all damages or injuries arising from the use of the 
crossing howsoever. 
 
C. FENCE AND TRACK GATES - EXISTING.  Subject to the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement, City, at City's expense, may maintain, use and keep in operable condition the 
existing fence and track gate provided that: 
 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
16 
 
 
1. 
City shall notify Railroad, at least 72 hours in advance, of any reconstruction in 
connection with the fence and gate. 
 
2. 
The Track gate shall be operated by City at all times as necessary to permit 
Railroad to access the Track, unless the gate is equipped to operate via automated 
activation in which case either party may operate the gate.  
 
3. 
If it is not automated, the gate shall include anchor posts and fastenings to secure 
the gate when open. 
 
4. 
Railroad shall have no liability whatsoever for failure to close and lock City's 
gate. 
 
5. 
City shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless Railroad from and against 
any and all claims for Loss related to injury or death arising from or 
growing out of the operation of the gate, including without limitation 
descending the train and approaching the gate.  
 
D. FIXED LOADING/UNLOADING DEVICE.   Railroad hereby consents to City’s use of 
that fixed loading/unloading device between Engineering Stations 6+78 and 7+10 of Track 
709 identified as UNLOADING PIT as shown on Exhibit A; PROVIDED (i) all fallen debris 
from the operation of the device within the standard clearances defined above in this 
Agreement, shall be immediately cleaned up and properly disposed of, (ii) the device is 
maintained in a safe operable condition and (iii) City shall be solely responsible for all 
damages or injuries arising from the use of any such device, including without limitation 
from fallen debris howsoever. 
 
E. NON-STANDARD TRACK.  The parties acknowledge that a certain portion of track that is 
located adjacent to the Track at City’s facility, at City’s request, has not been confirmed to 
align with Railroad standards (the “Non-Standard Track”), and that such Non-Standard Track 
is located beyond Engineering Station 3+29 of Track 708 as shown on Exhibit A as END OF 
ACTIVE TRACK.  For purposes of clarity, Railroad shall have no obligation to operate upon 
or otherwise provide service to City over the Non-Standard Track.  City agrees to install and 
at all times during the term of this Agreement maintain, to the satisfaction of Railroad in all 
respects and at City’s sole cost and expense, clearly visible signage prohibiting Railroad 
operations on the Non-Standard Track (“Required Signage”).  City agrees that under no 
circumstances shall City (or anyone representing City) request any Railroad personnel to 
remove or change the location of any Required Signage. To the fullest extent allowed by 
applicable law, City agrees to release, defend, indemnify, and hold harmless Railroad from 
and against any Loss (as defined in Article – “LIABILITY” of this Agreement) arising from 
or growing out of (i) the Non-Standard Track, including without limitation damage to 
locomotives or railcars due to derailment, and/or (ii) any failure of City to duly install or 
maintain the Required Signage in accordance with this Special Provision 
 
F. SPOT ON ARRIVAL.  All railcars destined to the Track must be received by City upon 
arrival (i.e., spot on arrival) and City will be responsible for demurrage charges incurred as 
provided in Article – “PAYMENT OF INVOICES; COSTS AND EXPENSES” of this 
Agreement.  Railcars will be placed in order of arrival and empties will be pulled in order of 
placement on the Track 
 
G. INTRAPLANT SWITCHING.  Railroad hereby consents to City performing intraplant 
switching over that portion of Track 709 between the Derail Devices and over all portions of 
Tracks 708, 711, 712, 713 and 714 as shown on Exhibit A; PROVIDED (i) derail(s) of a type 
and in location(s) required by Railroad in its sole discretion, are or have been installed and 
ITA – Track Construction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Folder No: 3203-51 
Form Approved UPRR Law 7/1/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised 5/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
17 
 
are maintained in good working condition, (ii) City shall be solely responsible for all 
damages to the Track, track material and underlying property or injuries caused by City’s 
switching operations howsoever and (iii) City shall ensure that all employees involved in 
intraplant switching are properly trained regarding all applicable Laws. 
 
H. TERMINATION OF PRIOR AGREEMENTS.  Effective as of the date hereof, those 
certain track agreements now in effect between the parties hereto or their predecessors, 
identified in the records of Railroad as its Audit Number NWD1122 dated July 18, 1957,  
Audit Number NWD5710 dated January 10, 1974, and Audit Number 210288 dated 
February 18, 1999, (collectively the “Prior Agreements”), are hereby terminated; 
PROVIDED, (i) such termination shall not affect any of the rights or obligations of the 
parties hereto under the Prior Agreements which may have accrued, or liabilities, accrued or 
otherwise, which may have arisen prior thereto and (ii) if not a party to the Prior Agreements 
City represents that .it has succeeded to all right, title and interest of the non-railroad party 
thereto and agrees that the Prior Agreements are superseded by this Agreement. 
 
The above Special Provisions, if any, are also subject to the terms, provisions, and conditions set forth 
elsewhere in this Agreement and to any prior regulatory approval that may be needed. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the 
date first herein written. 
 
 
UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By___________________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF FREMONT  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By___________________________________________ 
 
 
Printed Name: Scott Getzschman 
 
Title:  Mayor 
Power Turnout
Signal
Point of Curve
Prop. UPRR Track
Ex. Ind. Track
Prop. Ind. Track
Shift Ind. Track
Remove UPRR Track
Shift UPRR Track
Future Ind. Track
Right of Way
Hand Throw Derail
Power Derail
Ex. UPRR Track
Remove Ind. Track
Hand Throw Turnout
Bridge
Acquire Property
No RR Operations
Ex. Leased Ind. Trk
Prop. Leased Ind. Trk
DRAWN BY:  
CHECKED BY: 
DATE: 
 
 
 LOCATION & DESCRIPTION:
SHEET TITLE:
of
SHEET NUMBER
 
 
FES #:  
DOCUMENT TYPE:
City of Fremont
For use in Agreement with:
Trackage to Serve: Fremont Department of Utilities
Fremont, NE - Blair Sub MP 363.81 to MP 364.29
44902
 
Exhibit A
01
06
CHECKED BY: 
DATE: 
DATE
DESCRIPTION
pw://HDR_US_Central_01/3683/10190726/Fremont-Rail_Expansion_Ex01.dgn
5/1
8/2020 1
1
:
1
8:
1
7 AM
BY
pw:
//HDR_
US_Central
_01
/3683/1
01
90726/Fremont-Rai
l
_Expansi
on_Ex01
.
dgn
REV. #
\\omtrsrv1
\ECGCADStandards\UPRRTR\HDR\PLOTDRV\v8i
\HDR-
UPRR_
V8i
_pentabl
e.
tbl
Col
or tabl
e:
 
\\omtrsrv1
\ECGCADStandards\UPRRTR\Tabl
es\Col
or\UPRR.
tbl
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overvi
ew
of
SHEET NUMBER
DRAWN BY:  
LAK
NJB
5/18/2020
#
DRAWING #
TRACK
STATION(S)
Exhibit "A" - Exemption Table
EXEMPTION TABLE
CITY OF FREMONT - LON D. WRIGHT POWER PLANT RAIL EXPANSION - FES 44902
CATEGORY
06 - 07
DRAWING #
STANDARD
DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPTION
TYPE
DRAWING
REASON FOR EXEMPTION
Track Plan
Profile
Horizontal Curve
Vertical Curve
06
06
714
14+83 - 16+62
N/A
Proposed 9°00' curve on shifted Track 714 at east end of yard 
reduce the clear length available on Tracks 713 and 714.
horizontal curve into the long ties of the turnout and significantly
Utilizing 7°30' curvature in this instance would push the
facility, to minimize in-train forces at those types of facilities.
where an entire train is kept together, especially through a loop
unloading. AREMA criteria of 7°30' is intended for operations
receive unit trains but the unit does not remain together during
10°00' maximum without additional approvals. The facility does
Proposed curve meets UP Industrial Development criteria of
714
713
15+04 - 16+04
16+74 - 17+74
on shifted portions of Tracks 713 and 714 at east end of yard
Proposed vertical curves within the limits of horizontal curves
limit of 2.0 for industrial applications.
low speed and vertical curve V/L rations are well below UP
vertical curve on each track and extend project limits. Track is
Relocated vertical curves would require adding additional sag
existing yard track grade with existing yard ladder grade.
Proposed vertical curves are located at the intersection of
5
4
3
2
1
Power Turnout
Signal
Point of Curve
Prop. UPRR Track
Ex. Ind. Track
Prop. Ind. Track
Shift Ind. Track
Remove UPRR Track
Shift UPRR Track
Future Ind. Track
Right of Way
Hand Throw Derail
Power Derail
Ex. UPRR Track
Remove Ind. Track
Hand Throw Turnout
Bridge
Acquire Property
No RR Operations
Ex. Leased Ind. Trk
Prop. Leased Ind. Trk
DRAWN BY:  
CHECKED BY: 
DATE: 
 
 
 LOCATION & DESCRIPTION:
SHEET TITLE:
of
SHEET NUMBER
 
 
FES #:  
DOCUMENT TYPE:
City of Fremont
For use in Agreement with:
Trackage to Serve: Fremont Department of Utilities
Fremont, NE - Blair Sub MP 363.81 to MP 364.29
44902
 
Exhibit A
02
06
CHECKED BY: 
DATE: 
DATE
DESCRIPTION
pw://HDR_US_Central_01/3683/10190726/Fremont-Rail_Expansion_Ex02.dgn
5/1
8/2020 1
1
:
28:
57 AM
BY
pw:
//HDR_
US_Central
_01
/3683/1
01
90726/Fremont-Rai
l
_Expansi
on_Ex02.
dgn
REV. #
\\omtrsrv1
\ECGCADStandards\UPRRTR\HDR\PLOTDRV\v8i
\HDR-
UPRR_
V8i
_pentabl
e.
tbl
Col
or tabl
e:
 
\\omtrsrv1
\ECGCADStandards\UPRRTR\Tabl
es\Col
or\UPRR.
tbl
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overvi
ew
of
SHEET NUMBER
DRAWN BY:  
LAK
NJB
5/18/2020
ALL GRADING TRACK A
GRADING
CULVERT
SUBBALLAST
REMOVE TRACK
REMOVE TRACK
REMOVE TRACK
SHIFT TRACK
SHIFT TRACK
INSTALL TURNOUT
INSTALL TURNOUT
CONSTRUCT TRACK
COMPROMISE JOINT
EARTH BERM
MAINTENANCE
MAINTENANCE
MAINTENANCE
MAINTENANCE
MAINTENANCE
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
ALL SUBBALLAST TRACK A
CONSTRUCT TRACK A
EXTEND EXISTING CULVERT UNDER TRACK A
REPLACE EXISTING RAILROAD TIES
REPLACE EXISTING RAILROAD SWITCH TIES
SURFACE EXISTING TRACKS
SURFACE EXISTING TURNOUTS
REPAIR / REPLACE EXISTING SWITCH POINTS
SUPPLY ASSEMBLE INSTALL
SUPPLY ASSEMBLE INSTALL
INDUSTRY
UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
#
ITEM / TASK
DETAILED DESCRIPTION / COMMENTS
9,700
1,500
1,811
650
108
133
108
183
181
1
1
10
1
14
50
8
2
CY
CY
TF
TF
TF
TF
TF
EA
EA
TF
PR
EA
LF
EA
EA
TF
EA
EA
QTY
U/M
MFG
DRAWING #
TRACK
STATION(S)
05 - 06
05 - 06
05
06
06
06
06
05
06
06
06
SPECS
SPECS
SPECS
SPECS
SPECS
A
A
A
A
714
714
713
714
713
714
713
A
A
713/714
EXISTING
ALL
EXISTING
ALL
EXISTING
ALL
EXISTING
ALL
EXISTING
ALL
PROPOSED TURNOUT INSTALLATION
REMOVE TRACK FROM EXISTING TRACK 714 FOR
REMOVE TRACK AT END OF EXISTING TRACK 714
PROPOSED TURNOUT INSTALLATION
REMOVE TRACK FROM EXISTING TRACK 713 FOR
SHIFT EXISTING TRACK 714 TO PROPOSED TURNOUT
SHIFT EXISTING TRACK 713 TO PROPOSED TURNOUT
CONNECT TO EXISTING TRACKS
SUPPLY & INSTALL COMPROMISE JOINTS AS NEEDED TO
CONSTRUCT EARTH BERM AT END OF TRACK A
SCOPE OF WORK MATRIX
CITY OF FREMONT - LON D. WRIGHT POWER PLANT RAIL EXPANSION - FES 44902
EARTH BERM
X
X
1
EA
03
CONSTRUCT EARTH BERM AT END OF TRACK 708
05 - 06
05 - 06
708
1,120
0+00 - 19+50
0+00 - 19+50
EXISTING TRACK 714 FOR TRACK A
INSTALL TURNOUT WITH NO. 22-E SWITCH STAND IN
EXISTING TRACK 713 FOR TRACK 714
INSTALL TURNOUT WITH NO. 22-E SWITCH STAND IN
Exhibit "A" - Scope of Work Matrix
INSTALL CROSSING
EXISTING SIGNAL INFRASTRUCTURE
INSTALL CROSSING ON TRACK 709 FOR UP ACCESS TO
X
X
16
TF
04
709
Power Turnout
Signal
Point of Curve
Prop. UPRR Track
Ex. Ind. Track
Prop. Ind. Track
Shift Ind. Track
Remove UPRR Track
Shift UPRR Track
Future Ind. Track
Right of Way
Hand Throw Derail
Power Derail
Ex. UPRR Track
Remove Ind. Track
Hand Throw Turnout
Bridge
Acquire Property
No RR Operations
Ex. Leased Ind. Trk
Prop. Leased Ind. Trk
DRAWN BY:  
CHECKED BY: 
DATE: 
 
 
 LOCATION & DESCRIPTION:
SHEET TITLE:
of
SHEET NUMBER
 
 
FES #:  
DOCUMENT TYPE:
City of Fremont
For use in Agreement with:
Trackage to Serve: Fremont Department of Utilities
Fremont, NE - Blair Sub MP 363.81 to MP 364.29
44902
 
Exhibit A
50'
50'
62'
48.5'
14'
03
06
Exhibit "A" - Track Plan
CHECKED BY: 
DATE: 
DATE
DESCRIPTION
pw://HDR_US_Central_01/3683/10190726/Fremont-Rail_Expansion_Ex03.dgn
5/1
8/2020 1
1
:
35:
26 AM
BY
pw:
//HDR_
US_Central
_01
/3683/1
01
90726/Fremont-Rai
l
_Expansi
on_Ex03.
dgn
REV. #
\\omtrsrv1
\ECGCADStandards\UPRRTR\HDR\PLOTDRV\v8i
\HDR-
UPRR_
V8i
_pentabl
e.
tbl
Col
or tabl
e:
 
\\omtrsrv1
\ECGCADStandards\UPRRTR\Tabl
es\Col
or\UPRR.
tbl
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defaul
t
of
SHEET NUMBER
DRAWN BY:  
LAK
NJB
5/18/2020
5
2
2
5
+0
0
5
2
3
0
+0
0
5
2
3
5
+0
0
5
2
4
0
+0
0
5
+0
0
0
+0
0
1
0
+0
0
1
5
+0
0
STA 
5
2
3
8
+3
1.
1
7
MAI
N 
TRACK 
2
(
MP 
3
6
4.
8
1)
4
0'
 
CROSSI
NG
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
5
+4
3.
5
8
(
1
1.
5'
 
MI
N.
 
CL
EAR)
2
X1
2'
 
GATE
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
0
+0
0.
0
0
MAI
N 
TRACK 
2 
5
2
3
9
+5
7.
9
5
(
MP 
3
6
4.
8
3)
NO 
1
0 
L
H 
HTTO
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
1
+3
5.
5
8
4
0'
 
CROSSI
NG
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
1
+6
2.
8
1
1
3'
 
CL
EAR
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
1
+8
2.
1
8
PORTABL
E 
DERAI
L
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
2
+7
2.
0
5
UP 
ROW
TRK 
7
0
8 
STA 
0
+0
0.
0
0
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
2
+7
7.
0
6
NO 
7 
L
H 
HTTO
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
3
+9
9.
3
5
TRK 
7
0
8 
STA 
1
+2
2.
2
8
1
3'
 
CL
EAR
T
R
A
C
K
 
7
0
8
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
6
+7
8
UNL
OADI
NG 
PI
T 
FACE
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
7
+1
0
UNL
OADI
NG 
PI
T 
FACE
TRK 
7
1
1 
STA 
0
+0
0.
0
0
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
7
+2
5.
9
6
NO 
7 
RH 
HTTO
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
8
+5
8.
1
7 
TRK 
7
1
1 
STA 
1
+3
2.
5
8
1
3'
 
CL
EAR
TRK 
7
0
8 
STA 
2
+9
9.
4
7
2
X1
8'
 
GATE 
(
1
2'
 
MI
N.
 
CL
EAR)
NO 
7
 
L
H 
HT
T
O
L
UTHER 
ROAD
BLAIR SUBDIVISION MAIN TRACK 1
BLAIR SUBDIVISION MAIN TRACK 2
BLAIR SUBDIVISION MAIN TRACK 3
TRACK 711
TRACK 709
(
CROS
S
E
A
S
T 
EOT 
TRK 
7
0
8 
STA 
3
+2
9.
4
4
I
NSTAL
L 
EARTH 
BERM
END 
OF 
ACTI
VE 
TRACK
0
S C A L E  I N  F E E T
200
100
100
N
TRACK CHART DATA.
UPRR ROW BASED ON 
NOTE:
ABANDON 
I
N 
PL
ACE
A
B
A
N
D
O
N 
I
N 
P
L
A
C
E
To Fremont
Timetable West
To Alington & Missouri Valley
Timetable East
Power Turnout
Signal
Point of Curve
Prop. UPRR Track
Ex. Ind. Track
Prop. Ind. Track
Shift Ind. Track
Remove UPRR Track
Shift UPRR Track
Future Ind. Track
Right of Way
Hand Throw Derail
Power Derail
Ex. UPRR Track
Remove Ind. Track
Hand Throw Turnout
Bridge
Acquire Property
No RR Operations
Ex. Leased Ind. Trk
Prop. Leased Ind. Trk
DRAWN BY:  
CHECKED BY: 
DATE: 
 
 
 LOCATION & DESCRIPTION:
SHEET TITLE:
of
SHEET NUMBER
 
 
FES #:  
DOCUMENT TYPE:
City of Fremont
For use in Agreement with:
Trackage to Serve: Fremont Department of Utilities
Fremont, NE - Blair Sub MP 363.81 to MP 364.29
44902
 
Exhibit A
14'
50'
50'
52'
96.5'
04
06
Exhibit "A" - Track Plan
P
P
E
1
N
 
6
0
1
0
0
5
.
3
6
0
0
E
 
2
6
1
3
1
4
3
.
5
9
8
0
E
L
E
V
 
1
1
7
7
.
2
9
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Y
}
Z
Z
MH
V.
CHECKED BY: 
DATE: 
DATE
DESCRIPTION
pw://HDR_US_Central_01/3683/10190726/Fremont-Rail_Expansion_Ex04.dgn
5/1
8/2020 1
1
:
35:
56 AM
BY
pw:
//HDR_
US_Central
_01
/3683/1
01
90726/Fremont-Rai
l
_Expansi
on_Ex04.
dgn
REV. #
\\omtrsrv1
\ECGCADStandards\UPRRTR\HDR\PLOTDRV\v8i
\HDR-
UPRR_
V8i
_pentabl
e.
tbl
Col
or tabl
e:
 
\\omtrsrv1
\ECGCADStandards\UPRRTR\Tabl
es\Col
or\UPRR.
tbl
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defaul
t
of
SHEET NUMBER
DRAWN BY:  
LAK
NJB
5/18/2020
5
2
1
0
+0
0
5
2
1
5
+0
0
5
2
2
0
+0
0
5
2
2
5
+0
0
1
5
+0
0
2
0
+0
0
2
5
+0
0
3
0
+0
0
BLAIR SUBDIVISION MAIN TRACK 1
BLAIR SUBDIVISION MAIN TRACK 2
BLAIR SUBDIVISION MAIN TRACK 3
(
CROS
SI
NG 
CL
OS
E
D)
E
A
S
T 
1
S
T 
S
T
RE
E
T 
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
1
6
+9
1.
2
5
TRK 
7
1
1 
STA 
9
+6
6.
5
3
1
3'
 
CL
EAR
EOT 
TRK 
7
1
1 
STA 
1
0
+9
9.
9
1
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
1
8
+2
4.
2
5
NO 
7 
L
H 
HTTO
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
1
9
+2
7
RCB 
CUL
VERT 
MP 
3
6
4.
4
5
CUL
VERT 
(
MP 
3
6
4.
4
3)
NO 
1
4 
L
H 
 
POTO
(
MP 
3
6
4.
3
5)
NO 
1
5 
L
H 
 
POTO
(
MP 
3
6
4.
3
2)
NO 
1
5 
RH 
POTO
J
OHNSON 
RD
(
MP 
3
6
4.
2
9)
DOT 
# 
1
9
1
7
0
4
J
3
2'
 
PUBLI
C 
CROSSI
NG
(
MP 
3
6
4.
3
0)
CUL
VERT
(
MP 
3
6
4.
3
0)
OHP
TRK 
7
1
4 
STA 
0
+0
0.
0
0
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
2
9
+7
2.
6
9
NO 
9 
L
H 
HTTO
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
2
8
+7
4.
6
9
W ATER 
LI
NE
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
2
8
+7
8.
5
6
OHP 
LI
NE
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
2
8
+9
1.
5
0
CUL
VERT
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
2
9
+2
1.
5
1
3
2'
 
PUBLI
C 
CROSSI
NG
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
2
9
+4
4.
7
9
SANI
TARY 
SEW ER
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
2
9
+5
0.
2
0
FI
BER 
LI
NE
TRACK 
7
0
9 
STA 
2
8
+3
0.
0
0
1
6'
 
PRI
VATE 
TI
MBER 
CROSSI
NG
0
S C A L E  I N  F E E T
200
100
100
N
TRACK CHART DATA.
UPRR ROW BASED ON 
NOTE:
(
MP 
3
6
4.
2
9)
FI
BER 
 
LI
NE
To Fremont
Timetable West
To Alington & Missouri Valley
Timetable East
Power Turnout
Signal
Point of Curve
Prop. UPRR Track
Ex. Ind. Track
Prop. Ind. Track
Shift Ind. Track
Remove UPRR Track
Shift UPRR Track
Future Ind. Track
Right of Way
Hand Throw Derail
Power Derail
Ex. UPRR Track
Remove Ind. Track
Hand Throw Turnout
Bridge
Acquire Property
No RR Operations
Ex. Leased Ind. Trk
Prop. Leased Ind. Trk
DRAWN BY:  
CHECKED BY: 
DATE: 
 
 
 LOCATION & DESCRIPTION:
SHEET TITLE:
of
SHEET NUMBER
 
 
FES #:  
DOCUMENT TYPE:
City of Fremont
For use in Agreement with:
Trackage to Serve: Fremont Department of Utilities
Fremont, NE - Blair Sub MP 363.81 to MP 364.29
44902
 
Exhibit A
50'
50'
84'
14'
14'
14'
15'
51.82'
48.22'
05
06
Exhibit "A" - Track Plan
CHECKED BY: 
DATE: 
DATE
DESCRIPTION
pw://HDR_US_Central_01/3683/10190726/Fremont-Rail_Expansion_Ex05.dgn
5/1
8/2020 1
1
:
36:
25 AM
BY
pw:
//HDR_
US_Central
_01
/3683/1
01
90726/Fremont-Rai
l
_Expansi
on_Ex05.
dgn
REV. #
\\omtrsrv1
\ECGCADStandards\UPRRTR\HDR\PLOTDRV\v8i
\HDR-
UPRR_
V8i
_pentabl
e.
tbl
Col
or tabl
e:
 
\\omtrsrv1
\ECGCADStandards\UPRRTR\Tabl
es\Col
or\UPRR.
tbl
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defaul
t
of
SHEET NUMBER
DRAWN BY:  
LAK
NJB
5/18/2020
4
E
N
 
6
0
1
3
8
2
.
2
1
6
0
E
 
2
6
1
4
6
9
8
.
0
9
9
0
E
L
E
V
 
1
1
7
3
.
1
3
3
E
N
 
6
0
1
2
0
6
.
3
4
0
0
E
 
2
6
1
3
9
1
7
.
7
6
2
0
E
L
E
V
 
1
1
7
6
.
4
4
P
P
P
P
Z
Z
Z
Z
Y
Z
Y
Z
Y
}
Z
MH
V.
Z
Z
MM
Z
MM
3
6
4
5
1
9
5
+0
0
5
2
0
0
+0
0
5
2
0
5
+0
0
5
2
1
0
+0
0
3
0
+0
0
3
5
+0
0
4
0
+0
0
4
5
+0
0
(
MP 
3
6
4.
2
9)
DOT 
# 
1
9
1
7
0
4
J
3
2'
 
PUBLI
C 
CROSSI
NG
TRK 
7
1
4 
STA 
0
+0
0.
0
0
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
2
9
+7
2.
6
9
NO 
9 
L
H 
HTTO
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
2
8
+9
1.
5
0
CUL
VERT
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
2
9
+2
1.
5
1
3
2'
 
PUBLI
C 
CROSSI
NG
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
2
9
+4
4.
7
9
SANI
TARY 
SEW ER
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
2
9
+5
0.
2
0
FI
BER 
LI
NE
TRK 
7
1
2 
STA 
0
+0
0.
0
0
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
3
0
+6
6.
0
5
NO 
9 
RH 
HTTO
0
+0
0
1
0
+0
0
1
+1
2.
7
2
PC
2
+0
2.
5
3
PT
5
+0
0
TRACK A
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
3
2
+3
0.
1
1
TRK 
7
1
2 
STA 
1
+6
4.
3
4
1
3'
 
CL
EAR
TRK 
7
1
4 
STA 
2
+7
6.
4
0
TRK 
7
1
3 
STA 
1
+5
2.
3
9
1
3'
 
CL
EAR
TRK 
7
1
3 
STA 
1
+5
6.
7
2
TRK 
7
1
4 
STA 
0
+4
0.
6
3
1
3'
 
CL
EAR
TRK 
A 
STA 
1
+5
0.
2
9
TRK 
7
1
4 
STA 
1
+5
0.
2
4
1
3'
 
CL
EAR
BLAIR SUBDIVISION MAIN TRACK 1
BLAIR SUBDIVISION MAIN TRACK 2
TRACK A
TRACK 714
TRACK 713
TRACK 709
TRACK 712
TRK 
A 
STA 
0
+0
0.
0
0
TRK 
7
1
4 
STA 
2
+4
0.
1
7
START 
CONSTRUCTI
ON
W OOD,
 
SW I
TCH 
STAND 
OUTSI
DE
NO 
9 
RH 
HTTO,
 
SMSG 
FROG,
 
1
1
5
#,
TRK 
7
1
3 
STA 
0
+0
0.
0
0
TRK 
7
1
4 
STA 
1
+2
3.
6
3
NO 
9 
RH 
HTTO
0
S C A L E  I N  F E E T
200
100
100
N
TRACK CHART DATA.
UPRR ROW BASED ON 
NOTE:
(
MP 
3
6
4.
2
9)
FI
BER 
 
LI
NE
TRK 
A 
STA 
1
0
4
+4
4
UGE 
LI
NE
TRK 
A 
STA 
1
0
6
+2
3
OHP 
LI
NE
TRK 
A 
STA 
1
0
6
+5
5
OHP 
LI
NE
To Fremont
Timetable West
Missouri Valley
To Alington & 
Timetable East
Power Turnout
Signal
Point of Curve
Prop. UPRR Track
Ex. Ind. Track
Prop. Ind. Track
Shift Ind. Track
Remove UPRR Track
Shift UPRR Track
Future Ind. Track
Right of Way
Hand Throw Derail
Power Derail
Ex. UPRR Track
Remove Ind. Track
Hand Throw Turnout
Bridge
Acquire Property
No RR Operations
Ex. Leased Ind. Trk
Prop. Leased Ind. Trk
DRAWN BY:  
CHECKED BY: 
DATE: 
 
 
 LOCATION & DESCRIPTION:
SHEET TITLE:
of
SHEET NUMBER
 
 
FES #:  
DOCUMENT TYPE:
City of Fremont
For use in Agreement with:
Trackage to Serve: Fremont Department of Utilities
Fremont, NE - Blair Sub MP 363.81 to MP 364.29
44902
 
Exhibit A
51.82'
48.22'
14'
14'
14'
15'
57.27'
42.77'
06
06
Exhibit "A" - Track Plan
P
P
E
6
N
 
6
0
1
4
2
7
.
5
6
1
0
E
 
2
6
1
5
8
0
5
.
2
0
7
0
E
L
E
V
 
1
1
7
4
.
2
6
5
E
N
 
6
0
1
4
1
5
.
1
1
7
0
E
 
2
6
1
5
4
6
7
.
5
9
5
0
E
L
E
V
 
1
1
7
4
.
8
7
4
E
N
 
6
0
1
3
8
2
.
2
1
6
0
E
 
2
6
1
4
6
9
8
.
0
9
9
0
E
L
E
V
 
1
1
7
3
.
1
3
CHECKED BY: 
DATE: 
DATE
DESCRIPTION
pw://HDR_US_Central_01/3683/10190726/Fremont-Rail_Expansion_Ex06.dgn
5/1
8/2020 1
1
:
37:
1
7 AM
BY
pw:
//HDR_
US_Central
_01
/3683/1
01
90726/Fremont-Rai
l
_Expansi
on_Ex06.
dgn
REV. #
\\omtrsrv1
\ECGCADStandards\UPRRTR\HDR\PLOTDRV\v8i
\HDR-
UPRR_
V8i
_pentabl
e.
tbl
Col
or tabl
e:
 
\\omtrsrv1
\ECGCADStandards\UPRRTR\Tabl
es\Col
or\UPRR.
tbl
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defaul
t
of
SHEET NUMBER
DRAWN BY:  
LAK
NJB
5/18/2020
5
1
8
0
+0
0
5
1
8
5
+0
0
5
1
9
0
+0
0
5
1
9
5
+0
0
4
5
+0
0
5
0
+0
0
1
5
+0
0
1
5
+2
3.
3
4
PC
1
7
+3
1.
8
6
PT
TRACK A
TRACK 714
TRACK 713
TRACK 709
TRACK 712
1
5
+9
7.
2
7
PC
1
7
+2
6.
7
2
PT
1
4
+8
2.
9
7
PC
1
6
+6
2.
2
5
PT
TRACK A
TRACK 714
TRACK 713
TRK 
7
1
3 
STA 
1
6
+5
8.
8
5
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
4
7
+5
3.
3
8
1
3'
 
CL
EAR
TRK 
7
1
2 
STA 
1
7
+2
0.
4
2
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
4
7
+8
6.
9
4
1
3'
 
CL
EAR
TRK 
7
1
4 
STA 
1
5
+9
3.
6
9
TRK 
7
1
3 
STA 
1
7
+0
7.
2
5
1
3'
 
CL
EAR
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
4
8
+4
9.
1
6
CUL
VERT
TRK 
7
1
3 
STA 
1
8
+4
3.
0
6
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
4
9
+3
5.
1
6
1
3'
 
CL
EAR
TRK 
7
1
4 
STA 
2
0
+3
8.
0
7
EOT 
-
 
TRACK 
BUMPER
EOT 
TRK 
7
1
2 
STA 
1
9
+1
1.
8
7
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
4
9
+7
8.
9
4
NO 
1
0 
RH 
HTTO
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
5
0
+4
7.
3
9
UP 
ROW
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
5
0
+5
3.
4
0
OHP 
LI
NE
EOT 
TRK 
7
1
3 
STA 
2
0
+0
6.
9
1
 
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
5
1
+0
9.
8
2
SLI
DI
NG 
DERAI
L
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
5
2
+1
8.
2
4
1
3'
 
CL
EAR
MP 
3
6
3.
8
3
CUL
VERT
EOT 
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
5
3
+7
4.
1
4
MAI
N 
TRACK 
1 
5
1
8
5
+9
4.
9
8
(
MP 
3
6
3.
8
1)
NO 
1
0 
RH 
HTTO
MP 
3
6
3.
8
US 
HI
GHW AY 
2
7
5
BLAIR SUBDIVISION MAIN TRACK 1
BLAIR SUBDIVISION MAIN TRACK 2
TRK 
7
1
3 
STA 
1
8
+8
5.
0
0
EOT 
TRK 
7
1
4 
STA 
1
7
+7
2.
1
5
SW I
TCH 
STAND 
OUTSI
DE
SMSG 
FROG,
 
W OOD,
NO 
9 
L
H 
HTTO,
 
1
1
5
#,
TRK 
7
0
9 
STA 
5
0
+9
9.
5
2
NO 
1
0 
RH 
HTTO
EXTEND 
CUL
VERT 
I
N-
KI
ND
EOT 
TRK 
A 
STA 
1
9
+1
8.
0
9
I
NSTAL
L 
EARTH 
BERM
0
S C A L E  I N  F E E T
200
100
100
N
TRACK CHART DATA.
UPRR ROW BASED ON 
NOTE:
To Fremont
Timetable West
To Alington & Missouri Valley
Timetable East
Approved: Insurance Group 
 
EXHIBIT B 
Created: 5/9/06 
Last Modified:  10/31/2018 
1 
 
Union Pacific Railroad 
Contract Insurance Requirements 
 
Industry Track Agreement 
Risk Profile 7 
 
Industry shall, at its sole cost and expense, procure and maintain during the life of this Agreement (except 
as otherwise provided in this Agreement) the following insurance coverage: 
 
A. Commercial General Liability insurance. Commercial general liability (CGL) with a limit of not 
less than $5,000,000 each occurrence and an aggregate limit of not less than $10,000,000.  CGL 
insurance must be written on ISO occurrence form CG 00 01 12 04 (or a substitute form providing 
equivalent coverage).  The policy must also contain the following endorsement, which must be stated 
on the certificate of insurance: 
 
• 
Contractual Liability Railroads ISO form CG 24 17 10 01 (or a substitute form providing 
equivalent coverage) showing “Union Pacific Railroad Company Property” covered under the 
Industry Track Agreement as the Designated Job Site. 
 
B. Business Automobile Coverage insurance.  Business auto coverage written on ISO form 
CA 00 01 10 01 (or a substitute form providing equivalent liability coverage) with a combined single 
limit of not less $5,000,000 for each accident, and coverage must include liability arising out of any 
auto (including owned, hired, and non-owned autos.)  The policy must contain the following 
endorsements, which must be stated on the certificate of insurance: 
 
• 
Coverage For Certain Operations In Connection With Railroads ISO form CA 20 70 10 01 
(or a substitute form providing equivalent coverage) showing “Union Pacific Railroad 
Property” covered under the Industry Track Agreement as the Designated Job Site. 
• 
Motor Carrier Act Endorsement - Hazardous materials clean up (MCS-90) if required by law. 
 
C. Workers Compensation and Employers Liability insurance.  Coverage must include but not be 
limited to: 
 
• 
Industry’s statutory liability under the workers' compensation laws of the state(s) affected by 
this Agreement.   
• 
Employers' Liability (Part B) with limits of at least $500,000 each accident, $500,000 disease 
policy limit, $500,000 each employee. 
 
If Industry is self-insured, evidence of state approval and excess workers compensation coverage 
must be provided. Coverage must include liability arising out of the U. S. Longshoremen's and 
Harbor Workers' Act, the Jones Act, and the Outer Continental Shelf Land Act, if applicable. 
 
D. Umbrella or Excess insurance.  If Industry utilizes umbrella or excess policies, these policies must 
“follow form” and afford no less coverage than the primary policy. 
 
Other Requirements 
 
E. All policy(ies) required above (except business automobile, worker’s compensation and employers 
liability) must include Railroad as “Additional Insured” using ISO Additional Insured Endorsement 
Approved: Insurance Group 
 
EXHIBIT B 
Created: 5/9/06 
Last Modified:  10/31/2018 
2 
 
CG 20 26 (or substitute forms providing equivalent coverage).  The coverage provided to Railroad as 
additional insured shall not be limited by Industry's liability under the indemnity provisions of this 
Agreement.  BOTH INDUSTRY AND COMPANY EXPECT THAT UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD 
COMPANY WILL BE PROVIDED WITH THE BROADEST POSSIBLE COVERAGE 
AVAILABLE BY OPERATION OF LAW UNDER ISO ADDITIONAL INSURED FORM CG 20 
26.   
 
F. Punitive damages exclusion, if any, must be deleted (and the deletion indicated on the certificate of 
insurance), unless (a)  insurance coverage may not lawfully be obtained for any punitive damages that 
may arise under this Agreement, or (b) all punitive damages are prohibited by the state in which this 
Agreement will be performed. 
 
G. Industry waives all rights of recovery, and its insurers also waive all rights of subrogation of damages 
against Railroad and its agents, officers, directors and employees for damages covered by the workers 
compensation and employers liability or commercial umbrella or excess liability obtained by Industry 
required in this Agreement, where permitted by law.  This waiver must be stated on the certificate of 
insurance. 
 
H. All insurance policies must be written by a reputable insurance company acceptable to Railroad or 
with a current Best's Insurance Guide Rating of A- and Class VII or better, and authorized to do 
business in the state in which the Track is located.   
 
I. The fact that insurance is obtained by Industry will not be deemed to release or diminish the liability 
of Industry, including, without limitation, liability under the indemnity provisions of this Agreement.  
Damages recoverable by Railroad from Industry or any third party will not be limited by the amount 
of the required insurance coverage. 
 
J. Industry shall furnish Railroad with a certificate(s) of insurance, executed by a duly authorized 
representative of each insurer showing compliance with the insurance requirements in this 
Agreement. 
 
K. All insurance correspondence, certificates of insurance and endorsements shall be addressed as 
follows:  
 
Union Pacific Railroad Company 
 
 
Real Estate Department – Folder #3203-51 
 
 
1400 Douglas Street, Stop 1690 
 
 
Omaha, NE 68179 
 
Basic points to remember: 
 
• 
The certificate must indicate that Union Pacific Railroad Company is included as an additional 
insured.   
(Listing Union Pacific Railroad Company only as a certificate holder is not sufficient.) 
• 
Binders are only accepted for sixty (60) days. 
• 
Failure to comply with insurance requirements may result in a delay of your activity with UPRR. 
• 
The certificate must indicate your folder number. 
 
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-123 
 
A Resolution of the City Council of the City of Fremont, Nebraska, authorizing the Mayor 
to sign the Industrial Track Agreement with Union Pacific Railroad.  
 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and City Council accept the 
recommendation of the Utilities and Infrastructure Board to authorize the Mayor to sign 
the Industrial Track Agreement with Union Pacific Railroad.  
 
 
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 9th DAY OF JUNE, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scott Getzschman, Mayor 
ATTEST: 
 
___________________________ 
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk 
STAFF REPORT  
 
TO: 
 
Honorable Mayor and City Council  
 
FROM: 
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk  
 
 
 
DATE:  
June 9, 2020 
 
SUBJECT: 
Cement/Asphalt/Excavate Work License Application 
 
 
Recommendation: 
Move to approve the Cement worker license application(s) as 
presented subject to fulfillment of all licensing requirements 
 
 
Background:   Cement workers are required to apply for their first license with the City 
Council as there is not an examination given. There is no need to reapply with the City 
Council as long as the applicant keeps their license in force every year. Licensed 
cement/asphalt/excavate workers have a 60-day grace period to renew their license after 
April 1st of every year. 
 
Business 
Applicant 
Type 
Rick Coates 
Rick Coates 
Cement work 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To: 
Honorable Mayor and City Council 
 
From: 
Jennifer Dam, Planning Director 
 
Date: 
June 9, 2020 
 
Subject: 
Approval of Redevelopment Agreement with DPA Auctions 
 
Recommendation:  Approval of Resolution 2020-124 
 
Background:  
 
This matter involves the approval of a Redevelopment Agreement proposed for execution by the 
the City of Fremont (“CDA”) and Del Peterson, Inc. 
 
The CDA and the City Council of the City of Fremont approved an amendment to the 
Redevelopment Area #3 for the DPA Auction Project on May 26, 2020. 
 
The minimum project valuation is $3,150,000. The total TIF indebtedness authorized is $632,000. 
  
The agreement establishes the terms and use of TIF indebtedness. 
 
The agreement specifies the public and private improvements that will be constructed as a result of 
the project. 
 
 
Fiscal Impact: N/A 
 
 
1 
REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
 
(DPA AUCTIONS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT) 
 
 
This Redevelopment Agreement is made and entered into as of the 9th day of 
June, 2020, by and between the Community Development Agency of the City of 
Fremont, Nebraska (“CDA”) and Del Peterson and Associates, Inc., a Nebraska 
corporation (“Redeveloper”). 
RECITALS 
A. 
The CDA is a duly organized and existing community development 
agency, a body politic and corporate under the laws of the State of Nebraska, with 
lawful power and authority to enter into this Redevelopment Agreement. 
B. 
The City of Fremont (the “City”), in furtherance of the purposes and 
pursuant to the provisions of Article VIII, Section 12 of the Nebraska Constitution 
and Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-2101 to 18-2154, as amended (collectively the “Act”), has 
adopted a Redevelopment Plan for a blighted and substandard area designated by 
the City, including the Redevelopment Area. 
C. 
Redeveloper owns or has contracted to purchase the Project Site which 
is located in the Redevelopment Area. 
D. 
Redeveloper submitted a redevelopment project proposal to redevelop 
the Project Site.   
E. 
The redevelopment project involves acquisition of the Project Site and 
the construction of a new two-story, approximately 24,000 square foot office 
building, parking lot and associated improvements on the Project Site (the “Project”).    
 
 
2 
F. 
The CDA has approved the redevelopment project, including the 
utilization of tax-increment financing to assist in the cost of the eligible public 
improvements defined in this Redevelopment Agreement. 
G. 
CDA and Redeveloper desire to enter into this Redevelopment 
Agreement for redevelopment of the Project Site. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the mutual 
covenants and agreements herein set forth, CDA and Redeveloper do hereby 
covenant, agree and bind themselves as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION 
Section 1.01 
Terms Defined in this Redevelopment Agreement. 
 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the 
following meanings for all purposes of this Redevelopment Agreement, such 
definitions to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms and 
masculine, feminine and neuter gender of any of the terms defined: 
A. 
“Act” means Article VIII, Section 12 of the Nebraska Constitution, Neb. 
Rev. Stat. §§ 18-2101 through 18-2154, as amended, and acts amendatory thereof 
and supplemental thereto. 
B. 
“CDA” means the Community Development Agency of the City of 
Fremont, Nebraska.  
C. 
“City” means the City of Fremont, Nebraska. 
D. 
“Effective Date” means January 1, 2021. 
 
 
3 
E. 
“Eligible Project Costs” means only costs or expenses incurred by 
Redeveloper for Public Improvements that are eligible for reimbursement under the 
Act. 
F. 
“Minimum Project Valuation” means an amount equal to Three Million 
One Hundred Fifty Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($3,150,000.00). 
G. 
“Private Improvements” means all the private improvements to be 
constructed on the Project Site as more particularly described on Exhibit “A” 
attached and incorporated by this reference. 
H. 
“Project” means the improvements to the Project Site and adjacent 
thereto, including the Private Improvements and Public Improvements defined 
herein and described on Exhibit “A”.   
I. 
“Project Completion Date” means on or before December 31, 2021. 
 
J. 
“Project Site” means all that certain real property situated in the City, 
more particularly described on Exhibit “A”.   
K. 
“Public Improvements” shall include all the public improvements more 
particularly described on Exhibit “A” which are eligible improvements under the Act.  
The costs of the Public Improvements include the debt service payments of the TIF 
Indebtedness. 
L. 
“Redeveloper” means Del Peterson and Associates, Inc., a Nebraska 
corporation, or its assignee, which is subject to the written approval of the CDA. 
M. 
“Redevelopment Agreement” means this Redevelopment Agreement 
between the CDA and Redeveloper with respect to the Project. 
 
 
4 
N. 
 “Redevelopment Area” means the Redevelopment Area that is referred 
to as Redevelopment District #3 and that is legally described in the Redevelopment 
Plan. 
O. 
“Redevelopment 
Plan” 
means 
the 
Redevelopment 
Plan 
for 
Redevelopment District #3 prepared by the City and dated November of 2004, and 
approved by the City Council of the City pursuant to Resolution No. 2004-261, as 
amended by that certain Redevelopment Plan Amendment approved by the City 
Council of the City on May 26, 2020 pursuant to Resolution No. 2020-102.  
P. 
“TIF Indebtedness” means any bonds, notes, loans and advances of 
money or other indebtedness, including interest thereon, issued by the CDA or the 
City secured in whole or in part by TIF Revenues. 
Q. 
“TIF Revenues” or “Tax Increment” means incremental ad valorem taxes 
generated by the Project which are allocated to and paid to the CDA pursuant to the 
Act. 
Section 1.02 
Construction and Interpretation. 
 
The provisions of this Redevelopment Agreement shall be construed and 
interpreted in accordance with the following provisions: 
(a) 
This Redevelopment Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with 
and governed by the laws of the State of Nebraska, including the Act. 
(b) 
Wherever in this Redevelopment Agreement it is provided that any 
person may do or perform any act or thing the word “may” shall be deemed 
permissive and not mandatory and it shall be construed that such person shall have 
the right, but shall not be obligated, to do and perform any such act or thing. 
 
 
5 
(c) 
The word “including” shall be construed as meaning “including, but not 
limited to.” 
(d) 
The words “will” and “shall” shall each be construed as mandatory. 
(e) 
The captions to the sections of this Redevelopment Agreement are for 
convenience only and shall not be deemed part of the text of the respective sections 
and shall not vary by implication or otherwise any of the provisions hereof.   
ARTICLE II 
REPRESENTATIONS 
Section 2.01 
Representations by the CDA. 
 
The CDA makes the following representations and findings: 
(a) 
The CDA is a duly organized and validly existing Community 
Development Agency under the Act. 
(b) 
The CDA deems it to be in the public interest and in furtherance of the 
purposes of the Act to accept the proposal submitted by Redeveloper for the 
redevelopment of the Project Site as specified herein. 
(c) 
The Project will achieve the public purposes of the Act by, among other 
things, increasing employment, increasing the tax base, and lessening blighted and 
substandard conditions in the Redevelopment Area. 
Section 2.02 
Representations of Redeveloper. 
 
Redeveloper makes the following representations and findings: 
(a) 
Redeveloper is a Nebraska corporation, having the power to enter into 
this Redevelopment Agreement and perform all obligations contained herein and by 
proper action has been duly authorized to execute and deliver this Redevelopment 
Agreement. 
 
 
6 
(b) 
The execution and delivery of the Redevelopment Agreement and the 
consummation of the transactions herein contemplated will not conflict with or 
constitute a breach of or default under any bond, debenture, note or other evidence 
of indebtedness or any contract, loan agreement or lease to which Redeveloper is a 
party or by which it is bound, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, 
charge or encumbrance of any nature upon any of the property or assets of 
Redeveloper contrary to the terms of any instrument or agreement. 
(c) 
There is no litigation pending or to the best of its knowledge threatened 
against Redeveloper affecting its ability to carry out the acquisition, construction, 
equipping and furnishing of the Project or the carrying into effect of this 
Redevelopment Agreement or, except as disclosed in writing to the CDA, as to any 
other matter materially affecting the ability of Redeveloper to perform its obligations 
hereunder. 
(d) 
Redeveloper owns or has contracted to purchase the Project Site, in fee 
simple and free from any liens, encumbrances, or restrictions which would prevent 
the performance of this Agreement by Redeveloper. 
(e) 
Redeveloper shall not assign this Agreement to any successor or 
assignee prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Completion without the written 
approval of the CDA, which shall not be unreasonably withheld; provided, however, 
Redeveloper may assign this Agreement and the Project Site to 4-K Capital, LLC, a 
Nebraska limited liability company and an affiliate of Redeveloper, without the 
consent of the CDA. 
ARTICLE III 
OBLIGATIONS OF THE CDA AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS 
 
 
7 
Section 3.01 
Capture of Tax Increment. 
 
Subject to the contingencies described below and to all of the terms and 
conditions of this Agreement, commencing for the tax year of the Effective Date of 
the Project and continuing thereafter, the CDA shall capture the Tax Increment, as 
defined below, from the Project pursuant to the Nebraska Community Development 
Law.  The CDA shall capture the Tax Increment generated by the Project Site for a 
total period of not to exceed fifteen (15) years after the Effective Date once the Private 
Improvements have been completed and included in the assessed valuation of the 
Project Site and the Project Site is generating the Tax Increment subject to capture 
by the CDA (the “TIF Period”).  The effective date of this provision shall be the 
Effective Date of January 1, 2021, thus creating the “Redevelopment Project 
Valuation” or base value as of January 1, 2020.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the 
Redeveloper may, at its election, defer the Effective Date to January 1, 2022 by 
delivering written notice to the CDA on or prior to July 15, 2021, dependent on the 
timing of construction of the Private Improvements.  The CDA shall file with the 
County Assessor the “Notice to Divide Taxes” on or prior to August 1 in the year of 
the Effective Date. 
Section 3.02 
Tax Increment.   
 
The term Tax Increment shall mean, in accordance with Section 18-2147 of 
the Act, the difference between the ad valorem tax which is produced by the tax levy 
(fixed each year by the Dodge County Board of Equalization) for the Project Site 
before the completion of the construction of the Private Improvements for that year 
prior to the year in which the Effective Date falls, and the ad valorem tax which is 
produced by the tax levy for the Project Site after completion of construction of the 
 
 
8 
Private Improvements as part of the Project.  For this Project, the anticipated Tax 
Increment is the difference between the projected taxes payable for 2021 and 
subsequent years through the taxes levied for tax year 2035 (after construction 
completion) and the taxes payable for 2020 (before commencement of construction) 
as more particularly set forth on Exhibit “B”. 
 
The parties acknowledge and agree that ad valorem taxes in Nebraska are 
typically paid in arrears in the year following the year said taxes are due.  
Accordingly, the Tax Increment created in the fifteenth (15th) year of the Project 
pursuant to Section 18-2147 of the Act and this Agreement may be paid in the 
sixteenth (16th) year according to customary practice in Nebraska.  Said payment in 
arrears only affects the timing of tax payments, but does not in any way affect or 
limit the fifteenth (15th) year division of taxes. 
Section 3.03 
Issuance of TIF Indebtedness.   
No sooner than thirty (30) days following the approval and execution of this 
Agreement, the CDA shall incur or issue TIF Indebtedness (the “TIF Note”) in the 
estimated amount of Six Hundred Thirty Two Thousand and No/100 Dollars 
($632,000.00), as calculated on the attached and incorporated Exhibit “B”, 
including an annual interest rate ofnot to exceed five percent (5.0%), to be issued to 
the Redeveloper which shall entitle the holder of the TIF Note to receive the semi-
annual incremental tax payments generated by the Project for the taxes levied for 
the years 2021 through 2035.  The TIF Indebtedness, which shall be in the form of 
a TIF Promissory Note, attached as Exhibit “B-1”, shall not be a general obligation 
of the CDA or City which shall issue such Note solely as a conduit.  The proceeds of 
the TIF Note shall be in the form of a grant by the CDA to the Redeveloper.   
 
 
9 
If the Redeveloper intends to monetize the TIF Note, it shall locate a lender or 
other entity to acquire and fund the acquisition of the TIF Note for this TIF 
Indebtedness.  Redeveloper may pledge or assign the TIF Note to such lender and 
the CDA shall consent to such pledge upon request.  The TIF Note issued to 
Redeveloper shall be secured by a pledge or assignment of the Tax Increment to be 
captured by the CDA.  The Redeveloper acknowledges that, notwithstanding the 
pledge or assignment of the TIF Note to Redeveloper’s lender, if the Project does not 
generate sufficient Tax Increment Revenues or the CDA does not receive sufficient 
Tax Increment Revenues to pay the TIF Note in full, then the CDA shall, in all events, 
only be required to pay the net amount received in Tax Increment Revenues from 
the Project as full payment of the TIF Note. 
Section 3.04  
Use of TIF Indebtedness. 
The CDA will collect and use the Tax Increment in the form of a grant to 
Redeveloper to pay debt service on the TIF Indebtedness incurred as provided in 
Section 3.03 of this Redevelopment Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
the amount of the TIF Note that the CDA agrees to service and repay with the Tax 
Increment shall not exceed the amount of the Eligible Project Costs certified by 
Redeveloper pursuant to Section 4.02 and listed on Exhibit “C”. In addition, upon 
the funding of the TIF Indebtedness by Redeveloper, the CDA shall retain an 
amount sufficient to pay: (a) its reasonable and necessary cost of issuance, 
including attorney fees; (b) its Administrative Fee of one percent (1%); and (c) the 
CDA’s right to designate a sum equal to five percent (5%) towards improvements 
in the Redevelopment Area, all as set forth on Exhibit “C”.  The Tax Increment, 
less the CDA’s costs set forth above, shall be paid pursuant to the terms of any 
 
 
10 
TIF Promissory Note and/or TIF resolution issued by the CDA relating to this 
Project. 
Section 3.05  
Creation of Fund. 
The CDA will create a special fund to collect and hold the receipts of the 
Tax Increment for payment on the TIF Note. Such special fund shall be used for 
no purpose other than to pay TIF Indebtedness issued pursuant to Section 3.03 
above. 
Section 3.06 
Projected TIF Sources and Uses. 
 
The TIF Indebtedness calculation formula set forth on Exhibit “B”, reflects 
the generation of incremental taxes created by the Project anticipated to be in the 
amount of approximately Sixty Three Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($63,000.00) 
for the first year after the completion of construction.  The TIF sources and eligible 
uses are attached on Exhibit “C” and incorporated by this reference.  The 
Projected Uses of the TIF funds are eligible under the Act, and are estimates 
which shall be confirmed upon construction completion and be certified by the 
Redeveloper under Section 4.02 below. 
ARTICLE IV 
OBLIGATIONS OF REDEVELOPER 
Section 4.01 
Construction of Project; Insurance. 
(a)  
Redeveloper will complete the Public Improvements and the Private 
Improvements as described on Exhibit “A” and install all equipment necessary to 
operate the Public Improvements and the Private Improvements no later than the 
Project Completion Date.  Redeveloper shall be solely responsible for obtaining all 
permits and approvals necessary to acquire, construct and equip the Public 
 
 
11 
Improvements and the Private Improvements.  Until construction of the Public 
Improvements and the Private Improvements has been completed, Redeveloper shall 
make reports in such detail and at such times as may be reasonably requested by 
the CDA as to the actual progress of Redeveloper with respect to construction of the 
Public Improvements and the Private Improvements.  Promptly after substantial 
completion by Redeveloper of the Public Improvements and the Private 
Improvements, Redeveloper shall notify the CDA of the completion and request that 
the CDA issue a Certificate of Completion, the form of which is attached as Exhibit 
“D” and incorporated by this reference.  Once issued by the CDA, the Certificate of 
Completion shall be a conclusive determination of satisfaction of the agreements 
and covenants in this Redevelopment Agreement with respect to the obligations of 
Redeveloper to construct the Public Improvements and the Private Improvements, 
and Redeveloper shall be entitled to record the Certificate of Completion. 
(b) 
Any contractor chosen by Redeveloper or Redeveloper itself shall be 
required to obtain and keep in force at all times until completion of construction, 
policies of insurance including coverage for contractors’ general liability and 
completed operations (provided that Redeveloper may self-insure in lieu of obtaining 
and keeping in force such policy of insurance) and a penal bond as required by the 
Act or same alternate form of security.  The CDA shall be named as an additional 
insured.  Any contractor chosen by Redeveloper or Redeveloper itself, as an owner, 
shall be required to purchase and maintain property insurance upon the Project to 
the full insurable value thereof (provided that Redeveloper may self-insure in lieu of 
obtaining and keeping in force such policy of insurance). This insurance shall insure 
 
 
12 
against the perils of fire and extended coverage and shall include “special causes of 
loss” insurance for physical loss or damage.  
Section 4.02  
Cost Certification. 
 
Redeveloper shall submit to the CDA a certification of Eligible Project Costs, 
after expenditure of such project costs to verify the uses described on Exhibit “C”.  
Redeveloper may, at its option, submit one or more partial Eligible Project Costs 
Certifications prior to expenditure of all Eligible Project Costs providing 
certification of receipt of billings for work in progress. All Eligible Project Costs 
Certifications shall be subject to review and approval by the CDA prior to the 
funding of such eligible costs. Determinations by the CDA whether costs included 
in the Eligible Project Costs Certifications are properly included in Eligible Project 
Costs as defined in this Agreement shall be made in its sole discretion and shall 
be conclusive and binding on Redeveloper.  Redeveloper shall be required to 
certify eligible costs up to the principal amount of the TIF Note of Six Hundred 
Thirty Two Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($632,000.00). 
Section 4.03 
No Discrimination. 
 
Redeveloper agrees and covenants for itself, its successors and assigns that 
as long as this Redevelopment Agreement is outstanding, it will not discriminate 
against any person or group of persons on account of race, sex, color, religion, 
national origin, ancestry, disability, marital status or receipt of public assistance in 
connection with the Project.  Redeveloper will comply with all applicable federal, 
state and local laws related to the Project. 
 
 
13 
Section 4.04 
Pay Real Estate Taxes. 
(a) 
Redeveloper intends to create a taxable real property valuation of the 
Project and Project Site of not less than the Minimum Project Valuation set forth in 
Section 1.01(F) above, no later than as of the Project Completion Date.  During the 
period of this Agreement, Redeveloper, its successors and assigns, will: (1) not 
protest a real estate property valuation of the Project and Project Site to a sum less 
than or equal to the Minimum Project Valuation; and (2) not convey the Project Site 
or structures thereon to any entity which would be exempt from the payment of real 
estate taxes or cause the nonpayment of such real estate taxes. 
(b) 
If, during the period of this Agreement, the Project Site is assessed at 
less than the Minimum Project Valuation, Redeveloper shall either: (1) successfully 
protest the valuation of the Project Site upwards such that the valuation is equal to 
or greater than the Minimum Project Valuation; or (2) make a payment in lieu of 
taxes to the CDA upon thirty (30) days written notice in the amount of the shortfall 
equal to the amount the anticipated Tax Increment, as set forth on Exhibit “B”, 
exceeds the actual Tax Increment.  Redeveloper understands and agrees that the 
anticipated Tax Increment is a projection based on assumed values and tax levy 
rates and that the actual Tax Increment may vary substantially from the anticipated 
Tax Increment, in which event the Redeveloper could be obligated to make a 
significant payment in lieu of taxes.    
If Redeveloper is required to pay any such shortfall as a payment in lieu of 
taxes, the Redeveloper shall be entitled to receive reimbursement of any such 
shortfall payment to the extent TIF Revenues later become available during the TIF 
Period in an amount in excess of the amount necessary to meet the current debt 
 
 
14 
service payments.  Any such shortfall amounts not reimbursed at the end of the TIF 
Period shall be forgiven.   
Section 4.05 
No Assignment or Conveyance. 
 
 
Except as otherwise set forth herein, Redeveloper shall not convey, assign or 
transfer the Project Site, any interest therein, or this Agreement prior to the issuance 
of a Certificate of Completion without the prior written consent of the CDA, which 
shall not be unreasonably withheld and which the CDA may make subject to any 
terms or conditions it reasonably deems appropriate, except for the following 
conveyances, which shall be permitted without consent of the CDA:  Any(a) any 
conveyance to an affiliate or subsidiary of Redeveloper; or (b) any assignment as 
security for indebtedness (i) previously incurred by Redeveloper or incurred by 
Redeveloper after the Effective Date for Project costs or any subsequent physical 
improvements to the Project Site with the outstanding principal amount of all such 
indebtedness (whether incurred prior to or after the Effective Date) secured by the 
Project Site which shall have lien priority over the obligations of Redeveloper 
pursuant to this Redevelopment Agreement, or (ii) any additional or subsequent 
conveyance as security for indebtedness incurred by Redeveloper for Project costs 
or any subsequent physical improvements to the Project Site provided that any such 
conveyance shall be subject to the obligations of Redeveloper pursuant to this 
Redevelopment Agreement. 
 
Following the issuance of a Certificate of Completion for the Project, 
Redeveloper is permitted to convey, assign or transfer the Project Site and, at its 
option, to retain the TIF Promissory Note; provided, however, that Redeveloper’s 
successor or assignee shall take title to the Project Site subject to the terms of this 
 
 
15 
Agreement and the Memorandum of Redevelopment Agreement attached hereto as 
Exhibit “E”.  Redeveloper acknowledges and agrees that the TIF Promissory Note is 
payable solely and only out of the Tax Increment Revenue generated by the Project, 
and if the CDA does not receive sufficient Tax Increment Revenues to pay the TIF 
Promissory Note in full, the CDA shall only pay the amount received in Tax 
Increment Revenues from the Project as full payment of the TIF Promissory Note.  
Redeveloper further acknowledges and agrees that the CDA shall not be liable to 
Redeveloper for the CDA’s failure to enforce the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement against Redeveloper’s successor or assignee, including, but not limited 
to, the terms and conditions set forth in Section 4.04 and the CDA’s remedies set 
forth in Article VI. 
ARTICLE V 
FINANCING REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT; ENCUMBRANCES 
Section 5.01 
Financing. 
 
Redeveloper shall pay all costs for the construction of the Private 
Improvements and the Public Improvements.  Redeveloper shall be responsible for 
arranging all necessary financing for the construction of the Public Improvements 
and Private Improvements, including, with respect to the Public Improvements, the 
TIF Indebtedness.  
Section 5.02 
Encumbrances. 
 
Redeveloper shall not create any lien, encumbrance or mortgage on the 
Project or the Project Site except: (a) encumbrances which secure indebtedness 
incurred to acquire, construct and equip the Project or for any other physical 
improvements to the Project Site, (b) easements and rights of entry granted by 
 
 
16 
Redeveloper, (c) construction and materialman liens that may be filed in connection 
with the construction of the Private Improvements so long as any such lien is 
discharged or bonded within 90 days of completion of the Private Improvements, 
and (d) any other liens so long as any such lien is satisfied and released or substitute 
security is posted in lieu thereof within 90 days of Redeveloper receiving notice 
thereof. 
ARTICLE VI 
DEFAULT, REMEDIES; INDEMNIFICATION 
Section 6.01 
General Remedies of the CDA and Redeveloper. 
 
Subject to the further provisions of this Article VI, in the event of any failure 
to perform or breach of this Redevelopment Agreement or any of its terms or 
conditions, by either party hereto or any successor to such party, such party, or 
successor, shall, upon written notice from the other, proceed immediately to 
commence such actions as may be reasonably designed to cure or remedy such 
failure to perform or breach which cure or remedy shall be accomplished within a 
reasonable time by the diligent pursuit of corrective action.  In case such action is 
not taken, or diligently pursued, or the failure to perform or breach shall not be 
cured or remedied within a reasonable time, this Redevelopment Agreement shall be 
in default and the aggrieved party may institute such proceedings as may be 
necessary or desirable to enforce its rights under this Redevelopment Agreement, 
including, but not limited to, proceedings to compel specific performance by the 
party failing to perform or in breach of its obligations; provided that, in view of the 
additional remedies of the CDA set out in Section 6.02, the remedy of specific 
 
 
17 
performance by Redeveloper shall not include or be construed to include the 
covenant to build or construct the Private Improvements or Project. 
Section 6.02  
Additional Remedies of the CDA. 
In the event that: 
(a) 
Redeveloper, or successor in interest, shall fail to commence and 
subsequently complete the construction of the Project on or before the 
Project Completion Date, or shall abandon construction work for any 
period of 120 days (not including any period covered pursuant to the 
terms of Section 6.04 below); 
(b) 
Redeveloper, or successor in interest, shall fail to pay real estate taxes 
or assessments on the Project Site or any part thereof when due, and 
such taxes or assessments or payments in lieu of taxes shall not have 
been paid, or provisions satisfactory to the CDA made for such payment 
within thirty (30) days following written notice from the CDA (upon 
written request to the City, all such notices shall also be provided to 
Redeveloper’s lender);  
(c) 
Redeveloper does not maintain an assessed valuation equal to or 
greater than the Minimum Project Valuation for the Project Site for the 
term of this Agreement and fails to satisfy the obligations of Section 
4.04(b) of this Agreement; or 
(d) 
There is, in violation of Section 4.05 of this Redevelopment Agreement, 
transfer of the Project Site or any part thereof, and such failure or 
action by Redeveloper has not been cured within 30 days following 
 
 
18 
written notice from the CDA (upon written request to the City, all such 
notices shall also be provided to Redeveloper’s lender),  
then Redeveloper shall be in default of this Redevelopment Agreement; and in the 
event that such failure to perform, breach or default is not cured in the period herein 
provided, the parties agree that the damages caused to the CDA would be difficult 
to determine with certainty and that a reasonable estimation of the amount of 
damages that could be incurred is the amount of the grant to Redeveloper pursuant 
to Sections 3.03 and 3.04, less any reductions in the principal amount of the TIF 
Note, plus interest accrued (the “Liquidated Damages Amount”) which shall be paid 
by Redeveloper to the CDA within 30 days of demand by the CDA.  To the extent 
that such failure results in the fact that the CDA is not able to capture the full 
amount of the anticipated Tax Increment contemplated hereunder, Redeveloper 
shall be obligated, on an annual basis, to remit the sum by which the anticipated 
Tax Increment exceeds the actual Tax Increment. 
Section 6.03  
Remedies in the Event of Other Redeveloper Defaults. 
 
In the event Redeveloper fails to perform any other provisions of this 
Redevelopment Agreement (other than those specific provisions contained in Section 
6.02), and such failure has not been cured within 30 days following written notice 
from the CDA, then Redeveloper shall be in default.  In such an instance, the CDA 
may seek to enforce the terms of this Redevelopment Agreement or exercise any 
other remedies that may be provided in this Redevelopment Agreement or by 
applicable law; provided, however, that the default covered by this Section shall not 
give rise to a right of rescission or termination of this Redevelopment Agreement. 
 
 
19 
Section 6.04 
Limitation of Liability; Indemnification. 
 
(a) 
Notwithstanding anything in this Article VI or this Redevelopment 
Agreement to the contrary, neither the CDA, the City, nor their officers, directors, 
employees, agents or their governing bodies shall have any pecuniary obligation or 
monetary liability under this Redevelopment Agreement.  The obligation of the CDA 
on any TIF Indebtedness shall be limited solely to the Tax Increment pledged as 
security for such TIF Indebtedness.  Specifically, but without limitation, neither the 
City nor the CDA shall be liable for any costs, liabilities, actions, demands, or 
damages for failure of any representations, warranties or obligations hereunder.  
Redeveloper releases the CDA and the City from and agrees that the CDA and the 
City shall not be liable for any loss or damage to property or any injury to or death 
of any person that may be occasioned by any cause whatsoever pertaining to the 
Private Improvements.  Provided, however, such release shall not be deemed to 
include such liability actions as arise directly out of the sole negligence or willful 
misconduct of the CDA or the City.  
 
(b) 
Redeveloper agrees to indemnify, defend (at the CDA’s and/or the City’s 
option) and hold harmless the CDA, the City, their respective employees, officials, 
agents, representatives and volunteers from and against any and all liabilities, 
damages, injuries (including death), property damage (including loss of use), claims, 
liens, judgments, costs, expenses, suits, actions, or proceedings and reasonable 
attorney’s fees, and actual damages of any kind or nature, arising out of or in 
connection with any aspect of the acts, omissions, negligence or willful misconduct 
of Redeveloper, its employees, agents, officers, contractors or subcontractors, or 
Redeveloper’s performance or failure to perform under the terms and conditions of 
 
 
20 
this Redevelopment Agreement.  Such indemnification, hold harmless and defense 
obligation shall exclude only such liability actions as arise directly out of acts, 
omissions, or the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the CDA or the City.  The 
indemnification and defense obligations set forth herein shall survive the 
termination of this Redevelopment Agreement.  
ARTICLE VII 
MISCELLANEOUS 
Section 7.01  
Memorandum.  
A Memorandum of this Redevelopment Agreement in the form attached hereto 
as Exhibit “E” and incorporated by this reference shall be recorded with the Dodge 
County Register of Deeds for the Project.     
Section 7.02  
Governing Law. 
 
This Redevelopment Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of 
Nebraska, including the Act. 
Section 7.03  
Binding Effect; Amendment. 
 
This Redevelopment Agreement shall be binding on the parties hereto and 
their respective successors and assigns.  This Redevelopment Agreement shall run 
with the Project Site.  The Redevelopment Agreement shall not be amended except 
by a writing signed by the party to be bound. 
Section 7.04  
No Agency or Partnership. 
 
This Redevelopment Agreement is not intended and shall not be construed to 
create the relationship of agent, servant, employee, partnership, joint venture or 
association as between the CDA and the City, on the one hand, and Redeveloper, on 
the other hand, nor between the CDA and the City, on the one hand, and any officer, 
 
 
21 
employee, contractor or representative of Redeveloper, on the other hand.  No joint 
employment is intended or created by this Redevelopment Agreement for any 
purpose.  Redeveloper agrees to so inform its employees, agents, contractors and 
subcontractors who are involved in the implementation of or construction under this 
Redevelopment Agreement. 
Section 7.05 
Document Retention. 
 
Redeveloper shall retain copies of all supporting documents that are 
associated with the Redevelopment Plan, Project, or this Redevelopment Agreement 
and that are received or generated by the Redeveloper for three years following the 
end of the last fiscal year in which ad valorem taxes are divided for the Project and 
provide such copies to the City as needed to comply with the City’s retention 
requirements under the Act.  Supporting documents shall include, but shall not be 
limited to, any cost-benefit analysis conducted pursuant to Section 18-2113 of the 
Act, and any invoice, receipt, claim, or contract received or generated by the 
Redeveloper that provides support for receipts or payments associated with the 
division of taxes. 
[Signature and Notary Pages to Follow] 
 
 
 
22 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the CDA and Redeveloper have signed this 
Redevelopment Agreement as of the date and year first above written. 
 “CDA” 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
AGENCY OF THE CITY OF  
FREMONT, NEBRASKA 
 
ATTEST: 
 
By:________________________________ 
By: 
________________________________ 
 
Secretary 
 
Chairman 
 
 
 
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA  
) 
) ss. 
COUNTY OF DODGE 
) 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ___ day of June, 
2020, by  
 
 
 
 and   
 
 
, Chairman and Secretary 
respectively of the Community Development Agency of the City of Fremont, 
Nebraska, a public body corporate and politic, on behalf of the Agency. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
 
 
 
 
23 
 
“REDEVELOPER” 
 
DEL PETERSON AND ASSOCIATES, 
INC., a Nebraska corporation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title:  
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA 
) 
 
 
 
 
) ss. 
COUNTY OF DODGE 
) 
 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ___ day of June, 
2020, by _________________, ___________ of Del Peterson and Associates, Inc., a 
Nebraska corporation, on behalf of the corporation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
 
 
TABLE OF EXHIBITS: 
 
Exhibit “A” – Description of Project 
Exhibit “B” – TIF Indebtedness 
Exhibit “B-1” – TIF Note 
Exhibit “C” – Projected TIF Sources and Uses 
Exhibit “D” – Certificate of Completion 
Exhibit “E” – Memorandum of Redevelopment Agreement 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit “A” 
EXHIBIT “A” 
 
DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT 
 
 
The Project undertaken by Redeveloper on the Project Site, defined as the real 
estate legally described as: 
 
Part of Lot 4, of Nelsen Business Park, to the City of Fremont, 
Dodge County, Nebraska, being described as follows: Beginning 
at the Southwest Corner of said Lot 4; thence N00°27'27"E 
(assumed bearing) on the West Line of said Lot 4, a distance of 
73.16 feet to a point of curvature; thence northwesterly 
continuing on said West Line on a 532.50 foot radius curve to 
the left an arc distance of 170.62 feet to a point of reverse 
curvature, the chord of said curve bears N08°43'30"W 169.89 
feet; thence northerly continuing on said West Line on a 467.50 
foot radius curve to the right an arc distance of 149.85 feet to a 
point of tangency, the chord of said curve bears N08°43'30"W 
149.21 feet; thence N00°27'27"E continuing on said West Line, 
a distance of 76.42 feet to a point on the West Right-of-Way Line 
of U.S. Highway No. 275, as previously described and recorded 
in Book 2005, page 0228, of the Dodge County Register of Deeds 
records; thence S86°00'00"E on said West Right-of-Way Line, a 
distance of 100.92 feet, thence S81 °36'18"E continuing on said 
West Right-of-Way Line, a distance of 411.49 feet; thence 
S27°30'16"E continuing on said West Right-of-Way Line, a 
distance of 449.43 feet to a point on the South Line of said Lot 
4; thence N89°56'04"W on said South Line, a distance of 668.09 
feet to the true point of beginning, containing 5.76 acres, more 
or less. 
 
shall consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Private Improvements. The private improvements to be 
constructed by the Redeveloper on the Project Site include a new 
approximately 24,000 square foot office building, parking lot, 
and associated improvements. 
 
(b) 
Public Improvements.  Land acquisition, site preparation and 
grading, 
architectural 
and 
engineering 
fees, 
façade 
enhancements, energy enhancements, and other eligible public 
expenditures under the Act; paid for, in part, by the tax 
increment generated by the Private Improvements. 
 
 
 
Exhibit “B” 
 
EXHIBIT “B” 
 
TIF INDEBTEDNESS 
 
1. 
Principal Amount.  The principal amount of the TIF Indebtedness shall be 
the amount, together with interest accruing thereon, at an annual rate not to 
exceed 5.0%, which can be amortized by the Maturity Date, solely from the 
Tax Increment Revenues based upon the current aggregate ad valorem tax 
rate applicable to the Project Site multiplied by an assumed valuation of 
$3,150,000.00 less the base valuation, subject to required debt service 
coverage, required reserve, and cost of issuance.  
 
2. 
Anticipated Tax Increment:  Approximately $63,000.00 annually. 
 
3. 
Payments.  Semi-annually with interest only until real estate taxes are fully 
collected for the tax year of the Effective Date in an amount sufficient to fully 
amortize the TIF Indebtedness on or before the Maturity Date.   
 
4. 
Maturity Date.  On or before December 31, 2036. 
 
5. 
Notice to Divide Taxes.  The CDA shall file the “Notice to Divide Taxes” with 
the Dodge County Assessor prior to August 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit “B-1” 
EXHIBIT “B-1” 
 
TIF NOTE 
(See Attached) 
 
1 
THIS NOTE HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 
(“THE 1933 ACT”) AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED, ASSIGNED, SOLD OR 
HYPOTHECATED UNLESS A REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE 1933 ACT 
SHALL BE IN EFFECT WITH RESPECT THERETO AND THERE SHALL HAVE BEEN 
COMPLIANCE WITH THE 1933 ACT AND ALL APPLICABLE RULES AND 
REGULATIONS THEREUNDER, OR THERE SHALL HAVE BEEN DELIVERED TO 
THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE CITY OF FREMONT PRIOR TO 
TRANSFER, ASSIGNMENT, SALE OR HYPOTHECATION AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, 
SATISFACTORY TO THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE CITY OF 
FREMONT TO THE EFFECT THAT REGISTRATION UNDER THE 1933 ACT IS NOT 
REQUIRED. 
 
Registered 
Registered 
No. 1 
$632,000.00 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
STATE OF NEBRASKA 
THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY  
OF THE CITY OF FREMONT 
 
COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT REVENUE NOTE 
(DPA AUCTIONS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT) 
SERIES 2020 
 
Maturity Date 
Interest Rate 
Original Issuance Date 
December 31, 2036 
5.0%____% 
_____________, 20___ 
 
Registered Holder 
Principal Amount 
__________________________ 
$632,000.00 
 
 
THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE CITY OF FREMONT, 
NEBRASKA (the “Issuer”), a body politic and corporate organized and existing under 
the laws of the State of Nebraska, for value received hereby promises to pay, solely 
from the source and as hereinafter provided, to the Registered Holder identified 
above, or registered assigns, the Principal Amount identified above together with 
five____ percent (5.0%)(____%) interest at the office of the Fremont City Treasurer, 
as Paying Agent and Registrar, from the Original Issuance Date identified above.  
Accrued interest for 2021 shall be made in the form of Interest only payments in two 
(2) installments annually due July 15, 2021 and December 15, 2021. Thereafter 
principal shall be payable in thirty (30) equal semi-annual installments due July 15, 
2022, December 15, 2022, and each June 15 and December 15 thereafter through 
December 15, 2036.  The 2035 tax liability levied for 2035 shall be divided when the 
2035 tax payments are made in 2036.  Payments on this Note will be made by check 
or draft mailed to the Registered Holder in whose name this Note is registered at the 
close of business on the calendar day next preceding the applicable payment date 
at his address as it appears on such note registration books.  The principal of this 
Note is payable in any coin or currency of the United States of America which on the 
Formatted Table
Formatted Table
2 
respective dates of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private 
debts. 
 
 
This Note is designated The Community Development Agency of the City of 
Fremont, Nebraska Redevelopment Revenue Note (DPA Auctions Redevelopment 
Project), Series 2020, aggregating Six Hundred Thirty Two Thousand and 00/100 
Dollars ($632,000.00) (the “Note”) in principal amount which has been issued 
pursuant to Section 12 of Article VIII of the Nebraska Constitution and Neb. Rev. 
Stat. §§ 18-2101 through 18-2154, as amended and supplemented (the “Act”) and 
under and pursuant to a Resolution adopted by the Governing Body of the Issuer 
(the “Resolution”), to aid in the financing of a redevelopment project pursuant to the 
Act.  This Note does not represent a debt or pledge of the faith or credit of the Issuer 
or grant to the Registered Holder of this Note any right to have the Issuer levy any 
taxes or appropriate any funds for the payment of the principal hereof nor is this 
Note a general obligation of the Issuer, or the individual officials, officers or agents 
thereof.  This Note is payable solely and only out of the Tax Increment Revenues 
generated by the Project as identified in the Redevelopment Agreement by and 
between the Issuer and the Registered Holder hereof.  All such revenue has been 
duly pledged for that purpose.  If the Project does not generate sufficient Tax 
Increment Revenues or the Issuer does not receive sufficient Tax Increment 
Revenues to pay the Note in full, then the Issuer shall only pay the net amount 
received in Tax Increment Revenues from the Project as full payment of this Note. 
 
 
THIS NOTE DOES NOT NOW AND SHALL NEVER CONSTITUTE AN 
INDEBTEDNESS OF THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE CITY OF 
FREMONT, NEBRASKA, WITHIN THE MEANING OF ANY STATE CONSTITUTIONAL 
PROVISION OR STATUTORY LIMITATION, NOR SHALL THIS NOTE EVER GIVE 
RISE TO ANY PECUNIARY LIABILITY OF THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
AGENCY OF THE CITY OF FREMONT, NEBRASKA, A CHARGE AGAINST ITS 
GENERAL CREDIT OR TAXING POWERS. 
 
 
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal on this Note, or for 
any claim based hereon or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement contained 
in the Redevelopment Agreement against any past, present or future employee, 
member or elected official of the Issuer, or any incorporator, officer, director, 
member or trustee of any successor corporation, as such, either directly or through 
the Issuer or any successor corporation, under any rule of law or equity, statute or 
constitution or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, and 
all such liability of any such incorporator, officer, director or member as such is 
hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of and in consideration of the 
issuance of this Note. 
 
 
It is hereby certified and recited and the Issuer has found:  that the Project is 
an eligible “redevelopment project” as defined in the Act; that the issuance of this 
Note and the construction of the Project will promote the public welfare and carry 
out the purposes of the Act by, among other things, contributing to the development 
of a blighted and substandard area of the City of Fremont, Nebraska, pursuant to a 
Redevelopment Plan adopted by the City; that all acts, conditions and things 
required to be done precedent to and in the issuance of this Note have been properly 
3 
done, have happened and have been performed in regular and due time, form and 
manner as required by law; and, that this Note does not constitute a debt of the 
Issuer within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory limitations. 
 
 
This Note is transferable only upon the books of the Issuer kept for that 
purpose at the office of the Registrar by the Registered Holder hereof in person, or 
by his duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of this Note together with a written 
instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Registered 
Holder or his duly authorized attorney, together with a purchase letter, and 
thereupon a new registered Note or Notes in the same aggregate principal amounts 
shall be issued to the transferee in exchange therefor, and upon payment of the 
charges therein prescribed. The Issuer and the Paying Agent may deem and treat 
the person in whose name this Note is registered as the absolute owner hereof for 
the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal hereof and 
premium, if any, and interest due hereon and for all other purposes. 
 
 
The Note is issuable in the form of a registered Note without coupons.  Subject 
to such conditions and upon the payment of such charges provided in the 
Resolution, the owner of any registered Note or Notes may surrender the same 
(together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly 
executed by the registered owner or his duly authorized attorney), in exchange for 
an equal aggregate principal amount of registered Notes of any other authorized 
denominations. 
 
 
The Note is prepayable at any time in whole or in part, at a prepayment price 
of par, to the extent there are any funds in the debt service fund in excess of amounts 
necessary to pay scheduled debt service or in the event the Redeveloper directs the 
Issuer that it wishes to prepay the Note. 
 
 
Prepayments shall reduce the number, but not the amount, of scheduled debt 
service payments on the Note, in inverse order of maturity. 
 
 
It is hereby certified and recited that all conditions, acts and things required 
by law and the Redevelopment Agreement to exist, to have happened and to have 
been performed precedent to and in the issuance of this Note, exist, have happened 
and have been performed and that the issue of this Note, together with all other 
indebtedness of the Issuer, is within every debt and other limit prescribed by the 
laws of the State of Nebraska. 
 
 
This Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Redevelopment 
Agreement referred to herein or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until 
this Note shall have been authenticated by the execution by the Registrar of the 
Certificate of Authentication hereon. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF 
THE CITY OF FREMONT, NEBRASKA has caused this Note to be signed in its name 
and on its behalf by the signature of its Chairman and attested by the signature of 
its Secretary, as of the Original Issuance Date identified above. 
 
4 
THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
AGENCY OF THE CITY OF FREMONT, 
NEBRASKA 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
___________________________ 
 
 
By: _______________________________ 
Tyler Ficken, Secretary 
Chairman 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION 
 
 
 
This Note is delivered pursuant to the within-mentioned Resolution. 
 
Fremont City Treasurer,  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as Paying Agent and Registrar  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: _______________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Authorized Signature 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit “C” 
EXHIBIT “C”  
 
PROJECTED TIF SOURCES AND USES 
 
1. 
PROJECTED TIF SOURCES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assumptions: 
Dodge Co. Tax Levy (2019) 
2.047225  
 
 
TIF period (years) 
14   
 
 
Interest Rate:  
5.0%  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property Value Assumptions: 
 
Assessed Value 
Estimated 
Taxes 
 
 
Pre-Project 
$57,000 
$1,000 
 
 
Completed Project 
$3,150,000 
$64,000 
 
 
Difference 
$3,093,000 
$63,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TIF Calculations: 
Annual Tax Increment  
$63,000  
 
 
TIF Loan Amount 
$632,000  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
PROJECTED TIF USES1 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Costs 
  
 
A.  Admin. Fee – 1% 
$6,320 
  
 
B.  Cost of Issuance 
$5,000 
  
 
C.  City Improvements – 5% 
$31,600 
  
 
D.  Site Acquisition 
$125,000 
  
 
E.   Site Preparation & Grading 
$45,000 
  
 
F.   Façade Enhancements 
$450,000 
  
 
G.  Engineering Fees 
$10,000 
  
 
H.  Energy Efficiency Enhancements 
$100,000 
  
 
Total 
$772,920* 
  
 
 
 
  
 
*Eligible TIF Uses are projected to be over $772,920, but the TIF Revenue Projection is 
limited to $632,000 which is the sum generated by the projected incremental revenues 
based on the projected valuation of the redevelopment project.  For purposes of the Cost 
Certification required by Section 4.02, Redeveloper shall be required to certify costs up to 
the amount of the TIF Note of $632,000.
                                                          
 
1 All costs are estimates and are subject to final confirmation and adjustment upon construction completion. 
Formatted Table
Exhibit “D” 
1 
EXHIBIT “D” 
 
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION  
 
 
 
The Community Development Agency of the City of Fremont, Nebraska, a 
municipal corporation in the State of Nebraska (the “CDA”), hereby makes the 
conclusive determination and certification that, with regard to the following real 
property situated in the City of Fremont, Dodge County, Nebraska, to wit: 
 
____________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________
_________________ in the City of Fremont, Dodge County, Nebraska. 
 
(“Redeveloper Property”), all the improvements required to be constructed upon the 
above-described Redeveloper Property have been satisfactorily completed in 
accordance with the requirements of the Redevelopment Agreement (DPA Auctions 
Redevelopment Project) by and between the Community Development Agency of the 
City of Fremont, Nebraska, a municipal corporation in the State of Nebraska, and 
Del Peterson & Associates, Inc., a Nebraska corporation, and its successors and 
assigns (“Redeveloper”), said Agreement dated as of _______________, 2020 and a 
Memorandum of which is recorded as Instrument No. 2020-________, in the office of 
the Register of Deeds for Dodge County, Nebraska. 
 
The CDA further makes the conclusive determination that the Private 
Improvements (as defined in the Agreement) to the above-described Redeveloper 
Property are presently in conformance with the Agreement. 
 
 
 
Exhibit “D” 
2 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the CDA and Redeveloper have executed this 
instrument this ______ day of ______________________, 2020. 
 
 
“CDA” 
 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
 
AGENCY OF THE CITY OF 
 
FREMONT, NEBRASKA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_______________________, Chairperson 
 
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA 
) 
 ) ss.  
COUNTY OF DODGE 
) 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ____ day of 
________________, 2020, by _______________, Chairperson of the Community 
Development Agency of the City of Fremont, Nebraska, on behalf of the Agency. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
Exhibit “D” 
3 
 
“REDEVELOPER” 
 
DEL PETERSON AND ASSOCIATES, 
INC., a Nebraska corporation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title:  
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA 
) 
 
 
 
 
) ss. 
COUNTY OF DODGE 
) 
 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ___ day of 
___________, 2020, by _________________, ___________ of Del Peterson and Associates, 
Inc., a Nebraska corporation, on behalf of the corporation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
 
 
Exhibit “E” 
EXHIBIT “E” 
 
MEMORANDUM OF REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
(See Attached) 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After recording return to: 
Heather A. Carver 
Cline Williams Wright Johnson 
     & Oldfather, L.L.P. 
Sterling Ridge 
12910 Pierce Street, Suite 200 
Omaha, Nebraska 68144 
 
MEMORANDUM OF REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
(DPA AUCTIONS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT) 
 
 
This Memorandum of Redevelopment Agreement (“Memorandum”) is made 
this ___ day of _________, 2020 by and between the Community Development Agency 
of the City of Fremont, Nebraska (“CDA”) and Del Peterson & Associates, Inc., a 
Nebraska corporation (“Redeveloper”). 
 
 
 
1. 
Redevelopment Agreement.  CDA and Redeveloper have entered into 
that certain Redevelopment Agreement dated as of this even date, describing the 
public improvements being made by the CDA in the Redevelopment Area and the 
private improvements being made to real property owned by Redeveloper and legally 
described as: 
 
Part of Lot 4, of Nelsen Business Park, to the City of Fremont, Dodge 
County, Nebraska, being described as follows: Beginning at the 
Southwest Corner of said Lot 4; thence N00°27'27"E (assumed bearing) 
on the West Line of said Lot 4, a distance of 73.16 feet to a point of 
curvature; thence northwesterly continuing on said West Line on a 
532.50 foot radius curve to the left an arc distance of 170.62 feet to a 
point of reverse curvature, the chord of said curve bears N08°43'30"W 
169.89 feet; thence northerly continuing on said West Line on a 467.50 
foot radius curve to the right an arc distance of 149.85 feet to a point 
of tangency, the chord of said curve bears N08°43'30"W 149.21 feet; 
thence N00°27'27"E continuing on said West Line, a distance of 76.42 
feet to a point on the West Right-of-Way Line of U.S. Highway No. 275, 
as previously described and recorded in Book 2005, page 0228, of the 
Dodge County Register of Deeds records; thence S86°00'00"E on said 
West Right-of-Way Line, a distance of 100.92 feet, thence S81 °36'18"E 
2 
continuing on said West Right-of-Way Line, a distance of 411.49 feet; 
thence S27°30'16"E continuing on said West Right-of-Way Line, a 
distance of 449.43 feet to a point on the South Line of said Lot 4; thence 
N89°56'04"W on said South Line, a distance of 668.09 feet to the true 
point of beginning, containing 5.76 acres, more or less. 
 
 
2. 
Tax Increment Financing.  The Redevelopment Agreement provides 
for the capture of the Tax Increment, as defined therein, by the CDA of the private 
improvements to be made by the Redeveloper for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) 
years after the Project Effective Date of January 1, 2021.  The Tax Increment so 
captured by the CDA shall be used to make the public improvements as described 
in the Redevelopment Agreement.   
 
 
3. 
Remaining Terms.  The rest and remaining terms of the 
Redevelopment Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Memorandum as if they 
were set forth in full.  A full and correct copy of the Redevelopment Agreement may 
be inspected at the CDA offices in Fremont, Nebraska. 
 
 
3 
 
 
“CDA” 
 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
 
AGENCY OF THE CITY OF 
 
FREMONT, NEBRASKA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_______________________, Chairperson 
 
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA 
) 
 ) ss.  
COUNTY OF DODGE 
) 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ____ day of 
________________, 
2020, 
by _____________, 
Chairperson 
of 
the Community 
Development Agency of the City of Fremont, Nebraska, on behalf of the Agency. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
4 
 
“REDEVELOPER” 
 
DEL PETERSON AND ASSOCIATES, 
INC., a Nebraska corporation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title:  
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA 
) 
 
 
 
 
) ss. 
COUNTY OF DODGE 
) 
 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ___ day of 
___________, 2020, by _________________, ___________ of Del Peterson and Associates, 
Inc., a Nebraska corporation, on behalf of the corporation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notary Public 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4842-4270-27814826-0797-3309, v. 12 
CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FREMONT, 
NEBRASKA 
 
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-124 
(Redevelopment Agreement for the DPA Auctions Redevelopment Project) 
 
A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FREMONT, 
NEBRASKA APPROVING THE REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR THE DPA 
AUCTIONS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AND AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF 
TAX INCREMENT FINANCING INDEBTEDNESS. 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Fremont, Nebraska on May 26, 2020 
approved and adopted an Amendment to the Redevelopment Plan for a certain 
redevelopment area located in the City of Fremont, Nebraska and identified as 
Redevelopment District #3 (the “Redevelopment Area”) and a Cost-Benefit Analysis for 
the DPA Auctions Redevelopment Project (the “Project”) pursuant to the Nebraska 
Community Development Law codified at Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-2101 et seq. (the “Act”); 
 
WHEREAS, a copy of the Redevelopment Agreement by and between the 
Community Development Agency of the City of Fremont (the “CDA”) and Del Peterson 
and Associates, Inc., a Nebraska corporation, that will implement and govern the 
Project (the “Redevelopment Agreement”) is attached as Attachment “A” and 
incorporated herein by this reference; 
 
WHEREAS, on June 9, 2020, a meeting of the City Council was held at the 
Fremont City Council Chambers, 400 East Military Road, in Fremont, Nebraska in 
order to determine whether the Redevelopment Agreement should be approved; 
 
WHEREAS, the Redevelopment Plan and the Redevelopment Agreement will, 
in accordance with the present and future needs of the City of Fremont, promote the 
health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and the general welfare of 
the 
community in conformance with the legislative declarations and determinations 
set 
forth in the Act; 
 
WHEREAS, the Redevelopment Plan is feasible and is in conformance with 
the general plan for development of the City and its objectives are being 
accomplished in the Redevelopment Agreement for the Project; 
 
WHEREAS, the Project as described in the Redevelopment Agreement would 
not be economically feasible as designed without the use of tax increment financing; 
and the Project as designed would not occur in the Redevelopment Area without the 
use of tax increment financing; and the Project is in the long-term best interests of 
the community; 
 
WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed the Redevelopment Agreement and 
has found it to be in conformity with the Act and the general plan for development of 
the City of Fremont, and in the best interests of the City of Fremont; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Act and in light of the foregoing 
findings and determinations, the City Council desires to approve the Redevelopment 
Agreement and to approve the issuance of TIF Indebtedness in the form of the TIF 
Note attached to the Redevelopment Agreement as Exhibit “B-1”, in an amount not 
to exceed Six Hundred Thirty Two Thousand and No/100 dollars ($632,000.00).  
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the City Council of the City of 
Fremont, Nebraska does hereby approve and adopt the Redevelopment Agreement 
in substantially the form attached hereto as Attachment “A”; 
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the CDA of the City of Fremont is hereby 
authorized to negotiate the terms and conditions of the Redevelopment Agreement, 
and to execute and deliver the Redevelopment Agreement with such changes, 
modifications, and additions and deletions therein as the CDA and its legal counsel 
shall deem necessary, desirable or appropriate; 
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the CDA of the City of Fremont is hereby 
authorized to take all actions contemplated by the Redevelopment Agreement 
including, without limitation, to issue indebtedness following the lapse of thirty (30) 
days after the approval of the Redevelopment Agreement, in an amount not to exceed 
Six Hundred Thirty Two Thousand and No/100 dollars ($632,000.00), in the form 
of the TIF Note attached to the Redevelopment Agreement as Exhibit “B-1”. Such TIF 
Indebtedness shall be repaid solely from the Tax Increment created by the Project 
and does not represent the general obligation of the CDA nor the City of Fremont; 
and 
 
DATED THIS 9th DAY OF JUNE, 2020. 
 
THE CITY OF FREMONT, NEBRASKA 
 
 
By:   
 
Scott Getzschman, Mayor 
 
 
ATTEST:   
 
Tyler Ficken, City Clerk 
ATTACHMENT “A” 
 
Redevelopment Agreement 
 
[See Attached] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4839-3558-3164, v. 1 
 
 
 
STAFF REPORT  
 
TO: 
Honorable Mayor and City Council 
FROM: 
Jennifer Dam, Planning Director  
DATE: 
June 9, 2020 
SUBJECT:      Bluestem Commons REVISED Subdivision Agreement 
 
 
Recommendation:  Motion to Approve the REVISED Bluestem Commons Subdivision 
Agreement 
 
Background:  
 
Attached is the revised subdivision agreement for the Bluestem Commons development 
showing proposed changes suggested by City Council.  
 
This agreement was modeled after an existing subdivision agreement the City currently has in 
place for similar development that is a Sanitary Improvement District (SID). 
 
The changes clarify that the City will only pay for portions of the sanitary sewer that are 
oversized. 
 
The developer has agreed to install and pay for playground equipment by the clubhouse. The 
equipment will be maintained by the residential association. 
 
Fiscal Impact: Subdivision agreements protect the City and codifies how costs and 
improvements will be paid by the Developer. 
1 
 
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT  
Bluestem Commons Subdivision 
 
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this 9th day of June 2020, between FWFH, LLC, 
a Nebraska limited liability company and FOZC, LLC, a Nebraska limited liability company, 
(collectively, hereinafter referred to as "Subdivider"), SANITARY AND IMPROVEMENT 
DISTRICT NO 9 of DODGE COUNTY, NEBRASKA, (hereinafter referred to as "District"), and 
the CITY OF FREMONT, a Municipal Corporation in the State of Nebraska (hereinafter 
referred to as "City"). 
 
WITNESSETH 
 
WHEREAS, Subdivider is the owner of the land included within the proposed plat attached 
hereto as Exhibit "A", which parcel of land is outside the corporate limits of the City, within the 
City's zoning and platting jurisdiction, and found to be in accordance with the Comprehensive 
Plan of  the City ; and, 
 
WHEREAS, the overall area to be developed will be developed in 2 phases, a final plat having 
been approved for Phase 1 only (hereinafter referred to as the "Area to be Developed"), which 
final plat is attached her as Exhibit “A; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Subdivider proposes that the District will build certain public improvements in 
the Area to be Developed; and, 
 
WHEREAS, the Subdivider and the District wish to connect the system of sanitary sewers to 
be constructed by the District, within the Area to be Developed, to the sewer system of the 
City; and, 
 
WHEREAS, the Subdivider has or will create the Bluestem Commons Owners Association, 
Inc. ("Owners Association"), for residential lots within the Area to be Developed, comprised of 
the property owners of the following: 
 
• 
Lots 2-11, Block 1 
• 
Lots 1-21, Block 2 
• 
Lots 1-32, Block 3 
• 
Lots 1-24, Block 4 
• 
Lots 1-12, Block 5 
• 
Lots 2-5,   Block 6 
 
(Collectively, the "Residential Lots"); and for apartment buildings within the Area to be 
Developed, comprised of the property owners of the following: 
 
• 
Lot 1, Block 1—(four apartment buildings, containing 30-34 units each) 
 
(Collectively, the "Apartment Buildings"); and, 
 
WHEREAS, the Area to be Developed includes the following outlot which will be developed 
as part of Phase 1: 
• 
Outlot "A" 
2 
 
 
(the "Retained Lot") (collectively, the Residential Lots, the Apartment Buildings, and the 
Retained Lot, are the "Lots"); and, 
 
WHEREAS, the parties wish to agree upon the manner and the extent to which public funds 
may be expended in connection with public improvements to be constructed within the Area 
to be Developed or serving the Area to be Developed and the extent to which the 
contemplated public improvements specially benefit property in the Area to be Developed and 
to what extent the cost of same shall be specially assessed. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the following words and phrases shall have the following 
meanings: 
 
A. The "cost" or "entire cost" of a type of improvement shall be deemed to include all 
construction costs, engineering fees (including but not limited to design, observation, 
and testing), attorneys' fees, testing expenses, publication costs, financing costs and 
miscellaneous costs. Financing costs shall include all fiscal agent's warrant fees and 
bond fees, and interest on warrants to date of levy of special assessments. The date of 
levy of special assessments shall mean within six (6) months after acceptance of the 
improvement by the Board of Trustees of the District. For costs reimbursed by the City 
as set forth in Section II below, financing costs shall include interest on warrants from 
the date of issuance by the District to the date of reimbursement by the City to the 
District. 
 
B. "Property benefited" shall mean property within the Area to be Developed which 
constitutes building sites. Outlot "A" is open area and therefore is not a building site 
and shall be owned and maintained by the Owners Association, its successors or 
assigns.  
 
C. "Street intersections" shall be construed to mean the area shown on the attached 
street intersection drawings (Exhibit "B"). 
 
D. "General obligation" shall mean unassessable capital costs. 
 
E. (RESERVE FOR PHASE 2---"County Road T Improvements")  
 
SECTION I 
 
Subdivider and District covenant that Subdivider shall, and the District covenants that the District 
will, within 180 days of the filing of the final plat but in any event prior to beginning construction 
of the improvement, present to the City Clerk for the benefit of the City binding contracts in full 
force and effect calling for the timely and orderly installation of the following public improvements, 
according to the terms of those contracts. The District shall also provide and deliver to the City 
written confirmation of a binding agreement between the District and its fiscal agent calling for 
the placement of the warrants or bonds of the District for the installation of the improvements set 
forth herein: 
 
3 
 
A. Concrete paving of all streets dedicated, per the plat (Exhibit "A"), with residential paving 
to be twenty-eight (28) feet in width.  Final plans and specifications for said improvements 
shall be approved by the City prior to the start of construction. 
 
B. All sanitary sewer mains, manholes and related appurtenances constructed in dedicated 
street rights-of-way and easements, per plat (Exhibit "A"), same to be located as shown 
on attached Exhibit "C".  Final plans and specifications for said improvements shall be 
approved by the City prior to the start of construction. 
 
C. Storm sewers, inlets, manholes and related appurtenances constructed in street 
rights-of-way and easements, per plat (Exhibit "A"), as shown on attached Exhibit "D".  
Final plans and specifications for said improvements shall be approved by the City 
prior to the start of construction. 
 
D. Water Mains, hydrants, and related appurtenances constructed in street rights-of-way 
and easements, per plat (Exhibit "A"), as shown on attached Exhibit "E".  Final plans 
and specifications for said improvements shall be approved by the City prior to the 
start of construction. 
 
E. Gas distribution mains located within dedicated street rights-of-way dedicated per plat 
(Exhibit "A") to be installed by the City. 
 
F. Street lighting for public streets dedicated per plat (Exhibit "A") to be installed by City. 
 
G. Underground electrical service to each of the lots per plat (Exhibit A) in the Area to be 
Developed to be installed by City. 
 
H. Sidewalks and street trees along both sides of all public streets within the Area to be 
Developed shall be constructed by the Subdivider or District in conformance with the 
City subdivision ordinances according to the following schedule: 
 
1. Curb ramps shall be constructed per City standards at all public street 
intersections. Construction of these ramps shall be included in the street 
paving project but shall not take place until after all conflicting utilities have 
been installed. The cost for these ramps may be a general obligation of the 
District. 
 
2. Sidewalks shall be a private expense, except for sidewalks fronting outlots 
owned by the outlot owner per paragraph B of the definitions and except 
sidewalks along Luther Road, which shall be a general obligation of the 
District. All sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the 
Subdivider's building guidelines and with Covenants, Conditions, and 
Restrictions applicable to the Area to be Developed. 
 
SECTION II 
 
The parties agree that the entire cost of all public improvements paid for by the District and 
set out in Section I herein shall be defrayed as follows: 
 
A. One hundred percent (100%) of the entire cost of all streets and sidewalks shall be paid 
by special assessment against the property benefited within the Area to be Developed, 
4 
 
except for street intersections which may be a general obligation and except for 
sidewalks fronting outlots and sidewalks along Luther Road which may be a general 
obligation, as indicated in Exhibit "B". 
 
B. The sanitary sewer lift station will be built to serve both Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the 
overall area to be developed,  and, as such, the entire cost of the sanitary sewer lift 
station may be a general obligation of the District. 
 
C. The entire cost of the off-site sanitary outfall sewer (except oversizing) located outside 
the District Boundaries along Luther Road ("Outfall Sewer") shall be paid by the City 
D as follows: 
 
1. Fifty percent (50%) ofAll invoices for an 8”the Outfall Sewer extension along 
Luther Road shall be paid by the District as a general obligation and fifty 
percent (50%) shall be paid by the City. 
 
2. When construction of the Outfall Sewer along Luther Road reaches 
substantial completion, the District shall submit a Statement of Costs for all 
costs incurred by the District associated with the Outfall Sewer along Luther 
Road. The City will reimburse the District for fiftyone hundred  percent 
(50100%) of the costs incurred by the District for the 8” Outfall Sewer plus 
any costs for oversizing. The City shall reimburse the District within sixtythirty 
(630) days of receipt of the Statement of Costs. All reimbursements from the 
City to the District shall be credited to the Bond Construction Account of the 
District. 
 
3. Upon completion of the Outfall Sewer along Luther Road, the Outfall Sewer 
shall be turned over to the City, which will then own, operate, and maintain 
the Outfall Sewer. 
 
D. One hundred percent (100%) of the entire cost of all sanitary sewers, including 
manholes and other appurtenances, shall be paid by special assessment against 
property benefited within the Area to be Developed, provided, 
 
1. Upon completion of the sanitary sewers, the sanitary sewers shall be turned 
over to the City which will then own, operate, maintain the sanitary sewers for 
the benefit of the District. 
 
2. The District shall pay a yearly maintenance fee as provided by the City, which 
cost shall not exceed three thousand dollars ($3,000.00). 
 
3. Customers of the District shall be charged an "Outside City" schedule of rates. 
At the time the District is annexed, Customers will be charged a "Within City" 
schedule of rates. 
 
E. One hundred percent (100%) of the entire cost of the storm sewer and appurtenances 
serving the District constructed inside the District boundary by the District may be a 
general obligation of the District. 
 
F. The entire cost of the off-site water distribution system and located outside the District 
Boundaries ("Off-Site Water System"), shall be paid by the City, as follows: 
5 
 
 
1. All invoices for the Off-Site Water System shall be paid by the District. 
 
2. When construction of the Off-Site Water System reaches substantial completion, 
the District shall a Statement of Costs for all costs incurred by the District 
associated with the Offsite Water System.  The City will reimburse the District 
for one hundred percent (100%) of the amount paid to date by the District for 
the Off-Site Water System. The City shall reimburse the District within sixtythirty 
(630) days of receipt of the Statement of Costs. All reimbursements from the City 
to the District shall be credited to the Bond Construction Account of the District. 
 
3. Upon completion of the Off-Site Water System, the Off-Site Water System shall 
be turned over to the City, which will then own, operate, and maintain the Off-
Site Water System. 
 
G. The One hundred percent of the entire cost of the water distribution system (including all 
water mains, hydrants, and related appurtenances) serving the Area to be Developed and 
located within the District Boundaries ("On-Site Water System") shall be specially 
assessed against property benefitted with the Area to be Developed. 
 
1. Upon completion of the On-Site Water System, the On-Site Water System 
shall be turned over to the City, which will then own, operate, maintain the 
On-Site Water System for the benefit of the District. 
 
2. Provided that owners of Lots within the District pay the applicable connection 
and service extension charges to the City, the City shall charge owners of Lots 
within the District an "Outside City" schedule of rates, until such time as the 
District is annexed, at which point owners of Lots within the District will be 
charged a "Within City" schedule of rates. 
 
H. One hundred percent (100%) of the entire cost of monthly contract charges paid to the 
City for furnishing lighting of public streets shall be paid from the operating fund of the 
District. 
I. 
District shall pay $750 per Residential/Duplex Lot to the City when the primary electric 
lines are constructed by the City in the Area to be Developed. 
 
J. One hundred percent (100%) of the entire cost of the installation of electrical power 
secondary service to each Lot in the Area to be Developed shall be specially assessed 
against each Lot as follows: 
1. Connection fee and applicable secondary service fees for each residential lot 
shall be paid to City by the prospective customer when service is requested. 
 
2. Connection fee, primary electrical conduit, and applicable secondary service 
fees for each commercial/multifamily lot shall be paid to City by the 
prospective customer when service is requested. 
 
3. Customers of the District shall be charged an "Outside City" schedule of 
rates. At the time the District is annexed, Customers will be charged a "Within 
City" schedule of rates. 
6 
 
 
K. Any payments to other sanitary and improvement districts, sanitary districts, or 
municipalities for any fees or charges will not be a general obligation of the District, 
except as otherwise provided in this agreement.  No such charges are expected at this 
time. 
 
L. No funds of the District are to be used for the installation or maintenance of telephone 
equipment. 
 
M. Street One hundred percent (100%) of the entire cost of street identification signs shall 
be paid by the District and may be a general obligation, provided the signs are in 
compliance  of the District.  The signs shall comply with the Manual on Uniform Traffic 
Control Devices. All signs shall be approved, in writing, by the Traffic Engineer of the 
City prior to installation. 
 
N. The Sediment and Erosion Control Plan to be submitted to the City for compliance with 
NPDES regulations is attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit "F". The City 
must approve said plan prior to City Engineer's second signature on the final plat. The 
initial construction cost of grading and piping for temporary sediment and erosion 
control facilities shall be paid for privately by the Subdivider. Removal of said sediment 
and erosion control measures may be a general obligation of the District.  All sediment 
and erosion control facilities are to remain in place until seventy percent (70%) of the 
drainage sub-basin serviced by these erosion control measures are fully developed 
(all non-pervious areas shall be covered with established vegetation cover), and with 
the written permission of the City Public Works Department authorizing their removal. 
Sediment removal shall be paid as follows: 
 
1. During the initial construction of public streets and sewers, the District may 
pay for the removal as a general obligation of the District; a separate bid item 
shall be included in the public improvements contract for this work. 
 
2. For all subsequent sediment removal, the District shall pay for the work from 
its operating fund as a general obligation of the District. 
 
3. Basin closure or removal may be a general obligation of the District.  
 
O. One hundred percent (100%) of the entire cost and installation of a storm warning 
siren, at a location approved by the City, shall be paid by the District and may be a 
general obligation of the District. 
 
SECTION III 
 
Credit or funds of the District may be used to pay for any public improvements specified in 
this Agreement, but not for any other purpose. PROVIDED, HOWEVER, the District may issue 
warrants for the purpose of paying for repairs, maintenance and operating costs of the District, 
such warrants to be paid out of funds obtained by the District through its general fund tax levy, 
or where allowed by law, may be paid from special assessments or fees or charges. 
Maintenance, repair and reconstruction of a public improvement shall not be a general 
obligation of the District nor shall construction warrants be issued therefor without the prior 
written approval of the City Engineer for any amount exceeding $25,000, which approval will 
not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed. Storm warning sirens purchases or 
7 
 
installation may be a general obligation. The District shall not acquire any interest in real 
property without the prior approval of the City of Fremont, except as shown on the Final Platt. 
 
The General Obligation of the District for Phase 1 is estimated to be $1,672588,2000.00 (not 
including reimbursable cost of the City as set forth in Section II above), as shown on the 
Source & Use of Funds, Exhibit "G". The Source and Use of Funds for the total District is 
shown on Exhibit “G-1”. The District valuation for Phase 1 is estimated to be $33,359,212.00, 
as shown on Exhibit "H", for a Phase 1 debt ratio as set forth in Section II above, of 
5.014.76%. The debt ratio for the total District is shown on Exhibit “H-1” as 4.133.97%.  The 
General Obligation of the District shall be incurred only for costs identified as General 
Obligation-eligible costs in this Agreement, and shall not exceed the District engineer's 
estimate of probable cost of $1,672588,2000.00 for the Phase 1 and as shown on Exhibit 
"G," by more than 15%, except either i) the City Engineer or their designee may 
administratively approve a corresponding increase in the General Obligation of the District, 
or ii) by amendment of this Agreement and approval by the Fremont City Council. The City 
agrees that its failure to timely reimburse the District as set forth in Section II above will 
materially interfere with the operation of the District and its statutory and contractual 
obligations. Any General Obligation costs in excess of the approved amount shall be 
specially assessed or paid for privately. In no event shall public improvements financed by 
the District's General Obligation debt be in excess of 4.5% of estimated valuations. 
 
SECTION IV 
 
A. City covenants and agrees that should the City, by reason of its annexation of the 
District, or any area thereof, prior to District's levy of special assessments for the 
improvements authorized in this Agreement thereby succeeds to the District's power 
to levy special assessments, that the City will levy same in accordance with this 
Agreement. 
 
B. All parties covenant and agree that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed so 
as to oblige the City to annex the Area to be Developed or any part thereof. 
 
C. The District shall not sue nor fund any lawsuit to prevent any annexation of property 
within the District by the City except in the event the City annexes only a part of the 
District; the District does not waive its right to contest a proper division of assets and 
liabilities. 
 
SECTION V 
 
Subdivider and District covenant and agree that the District created by the Subdivider will: 
 
D. Abide by and incorporate into all of its construction contracts the provisions required 
by the regulations of the City pertaining to construction of public improvements in 
subdivisions and testing procedures therefor. 
 
E. Except as may otherwise be agreed to by City, all of said District's levy of special 
assessments shall be made in such a manner so as to assure that the entire burden 
of the levy is borne, on an equitable basis, by lots or parcels which are truly building 
sites. If any lot, parcel or other area within the Area to be Developed is not a building 
site by reason of insufficient size or dimensions, or by reason of easements or similar 
8 
 
burdens, or for any other reason, then no portion of the total amount shall be levied 
against said unbuildable lot, parcel or other area. 
 
F. The District shall provide the following information to the City Engineer at least twenty 
(20) days prior to the meeting of the Board of Trustees of the District held to propose 
the levy of special assessments: 
 
1. A detailed schedule of the proposed special assessment and/or the amount 
of general obligation costs of any improvement or acquisition. 
 
2. A plat of the area to be assessed. 
 
3. A full and detailed statement of the entire cost of each type of improvement, 
which statement or statements shall separately show: 
 
i. 
The amount paid to the contractor. 
 
ii. 
A special itemization of all other costs of the project, including, but not 
limited to, all engineering fees, attorneys' fees, testing expenses, 
publication costs, financing costs, including, but not limited to, interest on 
all warrants to date of levy of special assessments, estimated fiscal 
agent's warrant fees, bond fees and other items shown as "soft costs". 
 
iii. 
A special itemization of all costs of the District not itemized in (i) and (ii) 
above. 
 
G. The District agrees that it will not unreasonably delay acceptance of an improvement 
and that District shall levy special assessments within six (6) months after acceptance 
of the improvement. In addition to the above notice requirement, the District shall also, 
twenty (20) days prior to the Board of Equalization hearing of the District, give notice 
in writing to the City that the Board of Equalization will be convened on that date for 
the consideration of the levying of special assessments and equalization and 
apportionment of debt. 
 
SECTION VI 
 
A. The District agrees to annually levy a total combined ad valorem property tax of at 
least 85 cents per $100 taxable valuation until all construction fund debt is converted 
to bonds, and in no event, shall the District's total levy, be less than the City's total 
levy. 
 
B. After written notice from the City to the District of the City's intention to annex all of the 
territory of the District, the District shall not, until the earlier of (i) final annexation, or (ii) 
nine (9) months from the District's receipt of written notice of intent of annexation, enter 
into any contract that is in excess of $20,000 of budgeted expenditures or that exceeds 
one year in duration, unless and until such contract is first approved by the City Engineer 
or their designee. Any such contract that is not first approved by the City Engineer or 
their designee shall be voidable by the City after the annexation becomes effective. 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, nothing in this paragraph shall be 
deemed to restrict the District from complying with statutory budgeting requirements or 
from approving contracts that are in the reasonable judgment of the Board of Trustees 
9 
 
necessary to address an emergency situation within the District or to comply with their 
statutory obligations as Trustees. 
 
SECTION VII 
 
IN THE PERFORMANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT, THE DISTRICT SHALL NOT 
DISCRIMINATE AGAINST ANY PARTIES ON ACCOUNT OF RACE, COLOR, CREED, 
POLITICAL OR RELIGIOUS AFFILIATION, SEX, MARITAL STATUS, SEXUAL 
ORIENTATION, GENDER IDENTITY, NATIONAL ORIGIN, AGE, OR DISABILITY IN 
VIOLATION OF FEDERAL OR STATE LAWS OR LOCAL ORDINANCES.SECTION VIII 
 
A. Subject to the conditions and provisions hereinafter specified, the City hereby grants 
permission to the District to connect its sewer system (for both Phase 1 and Phase 2) 
to the sewer system of the City for a period not to exceed ten (10) years, in such 
manner and at such place or places designated on plans submitted by the District and 
approved by the City. 
 
B. Upon the completion of any sanitary outfall sewer, if any, built by the District, the City 
shall be granted, and it shall accept control and operation of the facility. The District 
shall convey by proper legal instrument all its rights, easements, title, and interest in 
such Sanitary Outfall Sewer to the City. The form of acquisition shall be upon approved 
City forms. 
 
C. Without prior written approval by the City, the District shall not permit any sewer lines 
outside the presently described boundaries to be connected to: The sewer or sewer lines 
of the District, any sewer from the District's boundaries to the sewers of the City, any outfall 
sewer of the City, or any sewage treatment plant of the City. The City shall have exclusive 
control over connections to its sewers whether inside or outside the District's boundaries. 
The District shall not collect charges for such connections. 
 
D. At all times, all sewage from and through said District into the City sewer system shall 
be in conformity with the ordinances, regulations, and conditions applicable to sewers 
and sewage within the City as now existing and as from time to time may be amended. 
 
E. Before any connection from any premises to the sewer system of the District may be 
made, a permit shall be obtained for said premises and its connection from the proper 
department of the City, which permit shall be obtainable on the same terms, conditions, 
and requirements of the City and for the same permit fee of the City applicable from time 
to time to permit property outside the City to connect to the sewer system of the City; it 
being expressly understood that the City reserves the right to collect all connection 
charges and fees as required by City ordinances or rules now or hereafter in force; all 
such connections shall comply with minimum standards prescribed by the City. 
 
F. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, City retains the right to 
disconnect the sewer of any industry, or other sewer user within the Area to be 
Developed, which is discharging into the sewer system in violation of any applicable 
ordinance, statute, rule or regulation. 
 
G. The District warrants that it has not employed or retained any company or person, other 
than a bona fide employee working for the District, to solicit or secure this Agreement, 
and that it has not paid or agreed to pay any company or person, other than a bona fide 
10 
 
employee working for the District, any fee, commission, percentage, brokerage fee, gifts, 
or any other consideration, contingent upon or resulting from the award or making of this 
Agreement. For breach or violation of this warranty, the City shall have the right to annul 
this Agreement without liability. The District shall require the same warranty from each 
contractor with whom it contracts in any way pertaining to its sewage system. The 
prohibition provided for herein shall not apply to the retention of an attorney or other 
agent for the purpose of negotiating the provisions of this Agreement where the 
existence of such agency has been disclosed to the City. 
 
H. Subletting, assignment or transfer of all or part of any interest of the District hereunder 
is prohibited without prior written approval of the City. 
 
I. 
The District expressly agrees that it is and shall be: 
 
1. Bound by and to any provisions of any ordinances, rules, and regulations 
hereafter made and adopted by the City applicable to sanitary and improvement 
districts whose sewers connect directly or indirectly with or into sewers or 
sewage systems of the City; and, 
 
2. Bound by any terms and provisions which by ordinance, resolution or rule of 
the City shall hereafter adopt or provide as being applicable to or required in 
contracts with sanitary and improvement districts or in order to permit or 
continue the discharge of any sewage from a sanitary and improvement 
district to flow into or through any part of the sewer or sewage system of the 
City. 
 
SECTION IX 
 
A. Installation of entrance signs or related fixtures and any median landscaping and 
related fixtures shall be paid for by the Subdivider. Plans for such proposed 
improvements that are to be located in public right-of-way and a proposed 
maintenance agreement for the improvements must be submitted to the City for review 
and approval prior to the installation of improvements. 
 
B. Outlot “A” shall be owned and maintained by the Residential Association, its 
successors and assigns. The District will be responsible for all maintenance costs 
associated with the stormwater retention and stormwater management functions in 
accordance with the stormwater management plan for the Area to Be Developed. 
 
C. A playground with playground equipment to serve the residents of the District will be 
provided in Lot 1, Block 6, centrally located and adjacent to the clubhouse building. It 
will be privately funded and it will be operated and maintained by the Residential 
Association, its successors and assigns. 
 
C.D. 
C.No separate administrative entity or joint venture, among the parties, is 
deemed created by virtue of the Subdivision Agreement. 
 
D.E. 
The administration of this Subdivision Agreement shall be through the offices 
of the undersigned officers for their respective entities. 
 
11 
 
E.F. 
This Subdivision Agreement shall be binding upon the parties, their respective 
successors and assigns and runs with the land shown on Exhibit "A". 
 
In witness whereof, we the executing parties, by our respective duly authorized agents, hereby 
enter into this Agreement, effective on the day and year first above written. 
 
ATTEST: 
CITY OF FREMONT 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
CITY CLERK                                            DATE 
_____________________________________ 
MAYOR                                                   DATE 
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
SANITARY AND IMPROVEMENT 
DISTRICT 
No. 9 OF DODGE CO., NEBRASKA 
SANITARY AND IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT 
No. 9 OF DODGE CO., NEBRASKA 
 
 
__________________________________ 
CLERK                                                    DATE 
 
 
_____________________________________ 
CHAIRMAN                                             DATE 
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
FWFH, LLC, a Nebraska limited  
 
 
 
 
liability company 
 
 
By:  
 
 
Ward F. Hoppe, Manager 
 
 
FOZC, LLC, a Nebraska limited  
liability company 
 
 
By:  
 
 
Ward F. Hoppe, Manager 
 
 
12 
 
On this ______day of __________________, 2020, sworn before me, a Notary Public in and 
for said County and State, personally appeared                                            who executed the 
above and acknowledged the execution thereof to be their voluntary act and deed. 
 
 
 
_________________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC 
 
My Commission expires 
_______________________
On this ______day of __________________, 2020, sworn before me, a Notary Public in and 
for said County and State, personally appeared                                            who executed the 
above and acknowledged the execution thereof to be their voluntary act and deed. 
 
 
_________________________________ 
NOTARY PUBLIC 
 
My Commission expires 
_______________________
On this ______day of __________________, 2020, sworn before me, a Notary Public in and 
for said County and State, personally appeared                                            who executed the 
above and acknowledged the 
execution thereof to be their voluntary act and deed. 
 
 
 
_________________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC 
 
My Commission expires 
_______________________
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 
 
SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT EXHIBITS 
Exhibit A - Final Plat 
Exhibit B – Paving, Streets 
Exhibit C – Sanitary Sewer Mains, manholes, and related appurtenances 
Exhibit D - Storm sewers, inlets, manholes, and related appurtenances 
Exhibit E - Water Mains, hydrants, and related appurtenances 
Exhibit F - Sediment and Erosion Control Plan 
Exhibit G - Source & Use of Funds for Phase 1 
Exhibit G-1 - Source & Use of Funds for Total District 
Exhibit H - District valuation for Phase 1 
Exhibit H-1 - District valuation for Total District 
 
 
 
 
 
00883566.DOCX 
00885809.DOCX 
“ ”
14710 W. DODGE RD, STE. 100
OMAHA, NE 68154
402.496.2498
LampRynearson.com
TODD L. WHITFIELD
LS-561
A
Know what's below.
before you dig.
Call
R
14710 W. DODGE RD, STE. 100
OMAHA, NE 68154
402.496.2498
LampRynearson.com
Know what's below.
before you dig.
Call
R
14710 W. DODGE RD, STE. 100
OMAHA, NE 68154
402.496.2498
LampRynearson.com
Know what's below.
before you dig.
Call
R
14710 W. DODGE RD, STE. 100
OMAHA, NE 68154
402.496.2498
LampRynearson.com
Know what's below.
before you dig.
Call
R
14710 W. DODGE RD, STE. 100
OMAHA, NE 68154
402.496.2498
LampRynearson.com
Know what's below.
before you dig.
Call
R
14710 W. DODGE RD, STE. 100
OMAHA, NE 68154
402.496.2498
LampRynearson.com
Bluestem Commons Phase 1
0119078.01-002
L:\Engineering\0119078 Fremont Housing\COST ESTIMATES\
SOURCE & USE OF FUNDS
EXHIBIT G
Proposed Improvement
Quantity
Unit
Construction 
Cost
Total Cost
General 
Obligation
Special
Reimbursable 
from City
SANITARY SEWER
Interior
3350
LF
$503,300.00
$700,600.00
$0.00
$700,600.00
$0.00
Outfall
1235
LF
$137,500.00
$191,500.00
$84,200.00
$0.00
$107,300.00
Lift Station
1
LS
$531,200.00
$739,400.00
$739,400.00
$0.00
$0.00
STORM SEWER
915
LF
$142,800.00
$198,800.00
$190,100.00
$8,700.00
$0.00
PAVING
Minor
13500
SY
$745,200.00
$1,020,300.00
$189,300.00
$831,000.00
$0.00
Major
2000
SY
$294,600.00
$389,800.00
$389,800.00
$0.00
$0.00
PARKS
Improvements
1
LS
$57,100.00
$79,400.00
$79,400.00
$0.00
$0.00
WATER
Interior
4000
LF
$332,800.00
$455,700.00
$0.00
$455,700.00
$0.00
Off-Site
1250
LF
$157,900.00
$216,200.00
$0.00
$0.00
$216,200.00
POWER
105
Units
$126,300.00
$169,900.00
$0.00
$169,900.00
$0.00
GAS
102
Lots
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Total
$3,028,700.00
$4,161,600.00
$1,672,200.00
$2,165,900.00
$323,500.00
BLUESTEM COMMONS - PHASE 1
6/4/2020    9:48 AM
Page 1 of 1
ESTIMATE 0119078 Phase 1.xlsx
Bluestem Commons Total
0119078.01-002
L:\Engineering\0119078 Fremont Housing\COST ESTIMATES\
ORDER OF MAGNITUDE COST ESTIMATE
EXHIBIT G-1
Proposed Improvement
Quantity
Unit
Construction 
Cost
Total Cost
General 
Obligation
Special
Reimbursable 
from City
SANITARY SEWER
Interior
4085
LF
$627,300.00
$873,200.00
$0.00
$873,200.00
$0.00
Outfall
1235
LF
$137,500.00
$191,500.00
$84,200.00
$0.00
$107,300.00
Lift Station
1
LS
$531,200.00
$739,400.00
$739,400.00
$0.00
$0.00
STORM SEWER
990
LF
$169,000.00
$235,200.00
$226,500.00
$8,700.00
$0.00
PAVING
Minor
17050
SY
$944,900.00
$1,293,700.00
$195,000.00
$1,098,700.00
$0.00
Major
2800
SY
$655,300.00
$883,700.00
$883,700.00
$0.00
$0.00
PARKS
Improvements
1
$57,100.00
$79,400.00
$79,400.00
$0.00
$0.00
WATER
Interior
5200
LF
$450,800.00
$617,300.00
$0.00
$617,300.00
$0.00
Off-Site
2005
LF
$249,600.00
$341,800.00
$0.00
$0.00
$341,800.00
POWER
138
Units
$191,800.00
$258,100.00
$0.00
$258,100.00
$0.00
GAS
133
Lots
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Total
$4,014,500.00
$5,513,300.00
$2,208,200.00
$2,856,000.00
$449,100.00
BLUESTEM COMMONS - TOTAL
6/4/2020    9:48 AM
Page 1 of 1
ESTIMATE 0119078 Total.xlsx
Bluestem Commons Phase 1
0119078.01-002
L:\Engineering\0119078 Fremont Housing\COST ESTIMATES\
DISTRICT VALUATION
ASSUMPTIONS
LIHTC Rowhome Value, per unit
=
$70,000
LIHTC Rowhome Land Value, per unit
=
$25,000
Rowhome Unit Value (Lot & Building)
=
$185,000
Duplex / Triplex Unit Value (Lot & Building)
=
$210,000
Clubhouse (Land & Building), per square foot
=
$150
Apartment Land Value, per unit
=
$5,735
Apartment Building Value, per unit
=
$105,000
ASSESSABLE VALUATION
LIHTC Rowhomes
25
Units =
$70,000 =
$1,750,000
LIHTC Rowhomes (Land)
25
Units =
$25,000 =
$625,000
Rowhomes
38
Units =
$185,000 =
$7,030,000
Duplexes Triplexes
40
Units =
$210,000 =
$8,400,000
Clubhouse
15,000
SF =
$150 =
$2,250,000
Apartment Land
136
Units =
$5,735 =
$779,960
Apartment Buildings
136
Units =
$105,000 =
$14,280,000
Total 100% Valuation =
$35,114,960.00
Total 95% Valuation =
$33,359,212.00
DEBT RATIO =
5.01%
BLUESTEM COMMONS - PHASE 1
EXHIBIT H
6/3/2020    12:46 PM
Page 3 of 22
ESTIMATE 0119078 Phase 1.xlsx
Bluestem Commons Total
0119078.01-002
L:\Engineering\0119078 Fremont Housing\COST ESTIMATES\
DISTRICT VALUATION
ASSUMPTIONS
LIHTC Rowhome Value, per unit
=
$70,000
LIHTC Rowhome Land Value, per unit
=
$25,000
Rowhome Unit Value (Lot & Building)
=
$185,000
(Gallery 23 rowhomes priced @ $180,000 - $205,000 / $122 - 
$130 per sq. ft.).
Duplex / Triplex Unit Value (Lot & Building)
=
$210,000
(Gallery 23 rowhomes priced @ $180,000 - $205,000 / $122 - 
$130 per sq. ft. Sunridge Place comparables are $218,000 for 
duplexes / $150 per sq. ft.).
Clubhouse (Land & Building), per square foot
=
$150
(Per Ayars' bid for Ticonderoga at $870,000 for 7,930 sq. ft. plus 
10% inflation, plus $30 TI).
Apartment Land Value, per unit
=
$5,735
Apartment Building Value, per unit
=
$105,000
ASSESSABLE VALUATION
LIHTC Rowhomes
25
Units =
$70,000 =
$1,750,000
LIHTC Rowhomes (Land)
25
Units =
$25,000 =
$625,000
Rowhomes
38
Units =
$185,000 =
$7,030,000
Duplexes / Triplexes
69
Units =
$210,000 =
$14,490,000
Clubhouse
15,000
SF =
$150 =
$2,250,000
Apartment Land
272
Units =
$5,735 =
$1,559,920
Apartment Buildings
272
Units =
$105,000 =
$28,560,000
Total 100% Valuation =
$56,264,920
Total 95% Valuation =
$53,451,674
DEBT RATIO =
4.13%
BLUESTEM COMMONS - TOTAL
EXHIBIT H-1
6/3/2020    12:47 PM
Page 3 of 3
ESTIMATE 0119078 Total.xlsx
