Gallup BID make-up Board meeting, June 11, 2020, 3 PM 
Smart phone dial in number – 
1-866-899-4679 
 
Access code –  
373-454-469 
 
 
 
Agenda 
 
Meeting of Gallup BID Board of Directors, June 11, 2020, 3 PM 
Note: this a remake of the May 21, 2020 meeting, which was impacted by technical 
difficulties. 
 
 
Call to Order 
 
Attendance 
 
Motion to Approve Agenda 
 
Motion to Approve Minutes of March 16, 2020 Board meeting 
(Note: April Board meeting was cancelled due to Covid-19) 
 
Motion to approve Monthly Financial Reports  
 
Voting items: 
 
Tandy Muffler sign grant application - 
Cost of sign project: $25,934.55.  Reimbursement request: $5,000. 
 
Rico Motors façade reimbursement request - 
Amount of annual BID assessment paid for past twelve months 
$10,734.30Cost of repair project: $1,422.62. Reimbursement request: 
$1,422.62 
Tony Bonaguidi façade reimbursement request – 
Amount of annual BID assessment paid for past twelve months $577.25.   
Cost of repair project: $270.78. Reimbursement request: $270.78 
 
Discussion items: 
 
Louie Bonaguidi was elected to the office of Mayor of Gallup. He will step 
down as President and remain on the BID Board. As discussed in prior BID 
Board meetings, Mr. Bonaguidi’s term as President had already run its term. 
A vote will be taken for President of Gallup BID. When a BID Board Director 
currently serving as an Officer of the corporation is elected to become 
President, a subsequent election will be held to fill that Officer’s assignment. 
This matter will be a voting item at the regular June BID Board meeting.  
 
State of New Mexico–City of Gallup COVID-19 advisories 
 
Coal Avenue Commons, Phase 1 construction update 
 
Alley Improvement project update 
 
GGEDC Retail Recruitment update 
 
Discussion with UNM Gallup about possibility of a working collaboration in 
Gallup downtown area 
 
Arts Crawl 2020 update 
 
Ride Flight Cruise 2020 update  
 
Vince Alonzo – City–BID partnerships for downtown district programs: 
1. Clean and paint City owned parking lot on the east side of Rex 
Museum, north across the alley from rear of Ricca’s Merc building 
2. Following upon Archie Baca’s recommendation for Parks & Rec to 
power-wash the downtown sidewalks, including all light and sign 
poles, especially on Coal Avenue, to help stop the spread of Covid 
19 virus in the downtown district 
 
Big Brothers Big Sisters: pending sign grant application. BBBS national 
organization has adopted a new logo. Gallup regional office must update to 
the new logo. 
 
Washington Federal (WaFd Bank) sign grant application update 
 
Newsletter 
 
BID Annual Meeting  
 
Main Street update, including business incubator grant 
 
Security companies’ price quotes for BID District patrols –  
Red Rock Security: $20.00/hr., plus tax 
Blackstone Security: $16.58/hr, plus tax; Saturday, Sunday, holidays: 
$24.75/hr., plus tax. 
TRIBE Security: $20.00/hr., includes tax 
 
BID work plan, new reimbursement programs for property improvements, 
BID relending program, etc. 
 
BID budget FY21 
 
 
Other discussion 
 
Reports –  
 
March 12 – meeting of Gallup Retail Attraction and Recruitment Committee 
at GGEDC to discuss logistics for working the annual RECON convention in 
Las Vegas in May; review of latest draft of Retail study by Place Dynamics 
(participating by phone) 
 
March 13 – RECON 2020 was cancelled due to concerns about spread of 
Covid 19 virus in Las Vegas, 
 
March 17 – US SBA emergency declaration 
 
March 19 - State of New Mexico declaration of Public Health Emergency, 
including ban on public gatherings/meetings 
 
March 19 – Telephone discussion with Rodey law firm about language to be 
used in BID agreements with property owners who wish to utilize BID 
property improvement programs 
 
March 27 – Telephone meeting: Stan Henderson, Gallup Director of Public 
Works, John Wheeler, Gallup Electric Dept. and Rhonda Quintana to discuss 
logistics of Arts Crawl events during Coal Avenue Commons project 
construction phase 
 
April 1 – Telephone meeting with Anna Biava 
 
April 1 - Meeting with Archie Baca re: Ricca Merc building rehab 
 
April 6 – Telephone meeting with Jesse Bopp, USDA –discussion of BID effort 
to establish Intermediary Relending Program with USDA funding 
 
April 7 – Telephone meeting – Robyne Beaubien, Kara Smith, Rhonda 
Quintana to discuss Main Street district branding initiative 
 
April 7 – Telephone meeting with Rhonda Quintana to discuss BID Arts Crawl, 
Ride Flight Cruise events and Facebook advertising 
 
April 8 – Telephone meeting with structural engineer Bill Druc about 
replacement of roof on Ricca Merc building 
 
April 10 – Meeting with Archie Baca to discuss rehab of Ricca Merc building 
 
April 11 – Telephone meeting with consultant Elmo Baca to discuss USDA 
loan program in relation to similar program used in Gallup in late 1980’s. 
 
April 14 – Lowe’s Pay & Save settled lawsuit with Sacred Heart Parish, Gallup 
concerning the property at 4th & Aztec in downtown Gallup 
 
April 14 – Telephone meeting with Sherman McCorkle to discuss availability 
of Sacred Heart lot (former Lowe’s store) 
 
April 16 – BID monthly Board meeting cancelled due to State and local 
concerns about spread of Covid 19 Virus 
 
April 17 –Telephone meeting with Jesse Bopp, USDA to discuss possible BID 
Intermediary Relending Program (to district businesses) 
 
April 19 – Structural Engineer Bill Druc, at Ricca Merc building, examined 
roof, second floor and all relevant building areas to determine load carrying 
capacity of existing structure 
 
April 21 – Telephone discussion with Fr. Matt Keller, Sacred Heart Parish. 
Conveyed Sherman McCorkle’s interest in acquiring the former Lowe’s Plaza 
property for development 
 
April 21- Telephone discussion with Rep. Patty Lundstrum about Covid virus 
driven NM budget changes; changes in the Gallup Retail Committee efforts; 
changes to contract of Place Dynamics, Retail consultant hired by City of 
Gallup 
 
April 24 – GEDA meeting, via conference call 
 
April 25 – Meeting with Archie Baca to discuss state and federal programs 
that may be utilized for renovation of Ricca Building 
 
April 29 – Discussion with Fred Palacios about possible improvements for his 
Gallup Custom Tinting building and other properties 
 
April 31 – Louie Bonaguidi sworn in as Mayor of Gallup 
 
May 1 – Telephone meeting with John Dowling, Pinnacle Bank, to discuss 
USDA Intermediary Relending Program 
 
May 1 – Telephone meeting with Jess Bopp, USDA to discuss Intermediary 
Relending Program 
 
May 1 – Telephone meeting with consultant Elmo Baca to discuss working ith 
USDA relending program 
 
May 8 –Virtual meeting with Robyne Beaubien, NMMS consultant; Leighton 
Moon, graphic design and branding firm; Kara Smith and Carol Sarath, 
GMSACD; Rhonda Quintana to review ideas for Gallup Main Street branding 
and logo 
 
May 9 – Discussion with Sarah Piano, Big Brothers, Big Sisters about sign 
grant request. BBBS national organization has adopted a new logo. Gallup 
BBBS must replace its existing sign with a sign carrying the current logo. 
Sarah will apply for a BID sign grant reimbursement 
 
May 10 – Discussion with Dynamic Signs about sign for Big Brothers Big 
Sisters 
 
May 15 – Discussion with Maryann Ustick about three options for Coal 
Avenue Commons construction project to be voted upon by City Council at its 
Special Council Meeting on May 18,2020 
 
Date of next BID meeting 
 
Public comment  
 
Motion to adjourn 
 
 
 
 
