 
City of Lake Dallas 
City Council 
Regular Meeting 
Thursday, June 11, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. 
Conducted by Videoconference  
Agenda 
 
Pursuant to Governor Greg Abbott’s temporary suspension of various provisions of the Texas Open 
Meetings Act, and in an effort to protect the health and safety of the public, this meeting is being 
conducted by video conference.  Members of the public who desire to only listen to proceedings of 
the meeting may dial the following toll-free number and, when prompted, enter the following Meeting 
ID #, beginning at 6:40 p.m. to join the meeting. Any person wishing to view the video conference 
may go to the Internet link shown below and enter the password shown.   
 
Toll Free Number: 
877-853-5257  
Meeting ID#:  
882 7209 9645 
Video Conference: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/88272099645?pwd=bjNWMlliUUd1ZEY1NXh0TGlhUkF5UT09 
Password: 
 
549500 
 
Members of the public are entitled to participate remotely via Videoconference.  To speak remotely 
at the City Council Meeting, speakers must: 
 
• 
Register with the City Secretary by either email cdelcambre@lakedallas.com or calling  940-
497-2226 ext. 102  by  3:00 p.m. on Thursday, June 11, 2020. 
• 
Registered speakers will receive an email or phone call providing the meeting link and/or 
telephone number to call on the date of the meeting. 
• 
Speakers must call not later than 6:45 p.m. on the date of the meeting in order to be allowed 
to speak.  Late callers will not be accepted and will not be allowed to speak. 
• 
Registered speakers will not be allowed to speak until recognized by the Mayor and unmuted 
by the City Secretary. 
• 
Speakers will be limited to 5 minutes each. 
• 
Handouts or other information that a member of the public desires to provide to the City 
Council must emailed to cdelambre@lakedallas.com by 3:00 p.m. on Thursday, June 11, 
2020. 
• 
Any person wishing to provide only written comments during Item 4 – Citizen Agenda & 
Public Comment, or on any other matter to be considered on this agenda, should email such 
comments to the City Secretary at cdelcambre@lakedallas.com by 3:00 p.m. on Thursday, 
June 11, 2020.  
 
 
 
 
Section I – Presentations 
1. Call to Order & Determination of Quorum 
2. Invocation & Pledges of Allegiance 
3. Announcements & Special Recognitions 
A. City Manager’s Report 
The City Manager’s Report may provide information on status of current city projects and other 
projects affecting the City, meetings and actions of the city’s boards and commissions, upcoming 
local community events, including, but not limited to, departmental operations and capital 
improvement project status. No action will be taken with respect to this report.  
 
4.  Citizen Agenda & Public Comment 
An opportunity for citizens to address the Mayor and City Council on matters which are not 
scheduled for consideration by the City Council. In order to address the Council, please send your 
comments to the City Secretary before 3:00 p.m. on the date of this meeting.  Comments sent by 
e-mail will be read aloud so that they are included in the recorded record of the meeting. In keeping 
with the Council’s procedures for limiting speaking time to five (5) minutes per speaker, any 
written comments provided for this item should be kept short enough so that they can be read aloud 
in five (5) minutes or less. 
Section II – Consent Agenda 
All items listed below are considered to be routine by the City Council and will be enacted with 
one motion.  There will be no separate discussion of the items unless a Councilmember so requests, 
in which event the item will be removed from the consent agenda and considered in its normal 
sequence. 
5. 
Consider and Act on the Consent Agenda 
A. Receive Monthly Budget & Financial Report May 2020. 
B. Approval of Minutes of the May 28, 2020. 
C. Consider approval of a Resolution approving the Interlocal Cooperative Purchasing 
Agreement between the City of Lake Dallas and Denton County, Texas. 
D. Consider approval of a Resolution authorizing the negotiation and execution of a 
Professional Services Agreement with Mr. John Glover for the performance of 
Environmental Health Inspections and related services. 
Section III – Planning & Development:  
6. 
Conduct a public hearing and consider an Ordinance changing the zoning relating to the 
development and use of 6.767± acres out of the N. French Survey Abstract  No. 424 from 
C-1 Retail and C-3-Commercial to PD Planned Development for R-1 Single Family to 
allow for approximately 50 single family dwellings on approximately 6.8 acres.  The 
property is more commonly known as 301 Carlisle Drive.  (Case Z-2020-03). 
  
7. 
Conduct a public hearing and consider an Ordinance changing the zoning regulations 
governing the development and use of 0.51± acres out of the Mary Wright Survey, 
Abstract No. 1355, said property being located in the Downtown District, from C-1 Retail 
District and C-3 Commercial District to Planned Development (PD) for C-3 Commercial 
District and adding laundromats as a permitted use.  The property is more commonly 
known as 312 S. Shady Shores Drive.  (Case Z-2020-05). 
 
8. 
Conduct a public hearing and take appropriate action on a request to replat Lots 1-6 and 
Lots 11-16, Block 1, Lake Dallas Sites into two larger lots, including vacation of a portion 
of street right-of-way for Carrollton Street The property is more commonly known as 
112 N. Lakeview Drive.  (Case P2020-01). 
 
Section IV- General Items 
 
9. 
Receive a report and hold a discussion regarding the expansion options for Hundley Drive, 
from Lake Dallas Drive to Lakeview Dr. 
 
10. Receive a report and hold a discussion regarding the installation of an all-way stop 
intersection at Carlisle Drive and Lake Dallas Drive. 
 
11. Receive a report and hold a discussion regarding updating and installing of signage and 
new pavement markings at the intersection of Overly Drive and Shady Shore Road. 
 
12. Consider and Act on a resolution and an Inter-Local Agreement (ILA) with the City of 
Corinth for a Broadband Study.   
 
13. Consider and Act on a resolution approving an Interlocal Agreement  with Denton County 
regarding a grant of Coronavirus Relief Funds pursuant to the Coronavirus Aid, Relief 
and Economic Security (CARES) Act and authorizing development of an economic 
development grant program relating to use of said grant funds 
 
14. Consider, discuss, and take appropriate action on a Resolution of the City Council of the 
City of Lake Dallas, Texas, modifying the Declaration of Local Disaster adopted pursuant 
to Resolution 05142020-15 and orders related thereto. 
 
15. Receive a report, hold a discussion, and give staff direction regarding the Lake Dallas 
Municipal Court accomplishments and goals for the upcoming fiscal year.  
 
16. Receive a report, hold a discussion, and give staff direction regarding the Public Works 
Department’s accomplishments, challenges and goals for the upcoming fiscal year 
 
17. Receive a report and hold a discussion regarding the Fiscal Year (FY) 2019-20 Revenue 
and Year End Projections and the Proposed Revenues for FY 2020-21. 
 
 
Section V – Elected Official Requested Items 
18. Mayor & Council Member Announcements 
The City Council may hear or make reports of community interest provided no action is taken or 
discussed. Community interest items may include information regarding upcoming schedules of 
events, honorary recognitions, and announcements involving imminent public health and safety 
threats to the city. Any deliberation shall be limited a proposal to place the subject on an agenda 
for a subsequent meeting. 
Section VI – Executive Session As authorized by Section 551.071 of the Texas Government 
Code, this meeting may be convened into closed executive session for the purpose of seeking 
confidential legal advice from the City Attorney on any agenda item listed above or herein. 
Section VII – Return to Open Session 
 
19. Discuss and take appropriate action, if any, resulting from the discussions conducted in 
Closed Session. 
 
Section VIII – Adjournment 
I certify that the above notice of this meeting posted on the bulletin board at City Hall of the City 
of Lake Dallas, Texas on June 7, 2020 at 5:00 p.m.  
 
 
__________________________ 
Codi Delcambre, TRMC 
City Secretary  
 
As authorized by Section 551.071 of the Texas Government Code, this meeting may be convened 
into closed executive session for the purpose of seeking confidential legal advice from the City 
Attorney on any agenda item listed above or herein. 
If you plan to attend this public meeting telephonically and you have a disability that requires 
special arrangements at this meeting, please contact City Secretary’s Office at (940) 497-2226 ext. 
102 or fax (940) 497-4485 at least two (2) working days prior to the meeting so that appropriate 
arrangements can be made. 
