The FALMOUTH CONSERVATION COMMISSION will hold a public hearing under Section
40, Chapter 131 of the general laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Wetlands Protection 
Act and/or the Town of Falmouth Wetlands Protection Bylaw on Wednesday, June 10, 2020 at 
7:00 PM.
In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, relating to the 2020 novel Coronavirus outbreak emergency, the June 
10, 2020 public meeting of the Falmouth Conservation Commission shall be physically 
closed to the public to avoid group congregation. 
Alternative public access to this meeting shall be provided in the following manner:
1. The meeting will be televised via Falmouth Community Television.
2. Real-time public comment can be addressed to the Conservation Commission utilizing 
the Zoom virtual meeting software for remote access.  This application will allow users to
view the meeting and send a comment or question to the Chair via the Chat function. 
Submitted text comments will be read into the record at the appropriate points in the 
meeting.
a.
Zoom Login instructions:
i. Instructions and the meeting link for this specific meeting can be found at 
the following web address: 
http://www.falmouthmass.us/1092/Conservation-Commission
ii. Please plan on 10-15 minutes of preparation time to log in though it may 
be less if you have previously used Zoom on the device you will use to 
access this meeting.
3. Additionally public comments may be sent in advance of the meeting to 
concom@falmouthma.gov at least 5 hours prior to the beginning of the meeting.  
Documents and audio or video files may also be submitted via email. Submitted email 
comments and documents will be made a part of the meeting record and may be read into
the record, summarized or displayed during the meeting at the discretion of the chair.   
4. Applicants, their representatives and individuals with enforcement matters before the 
Conservation Commission may appear remotely and are not required to be physically 
present.  Applicants, their representatives and individuals with enforcement matters 
before the Conservation Commission may contact the Conservation Department to 
arrange an alternative means of real time participation if unable to use the Zoom virtual 
meeting software.  Documentary exhibits and/or visual presentations should be submitted
in advance of the meeting to concom@falmouthma.gov  so they may be displayed for 
remote public access viewing.  
Complete applications are available by request and will be sent via email.
REQUESTS FOR DETERMINATION OF APPLICABILITY
John Corbett, 139 Allen Avenue, Falmouth, MA – For permission to construct and maintain an 
in-ground pool, pool equipment, fencing with gates, a retaining wall, stone pavers, patios, stone 
stoops and a free-standing fenced rinse station within the flood zone
Gordon Thomson, 18 Millfield Street, Woods Hole, Falmouth, MA – For permission to 
reconstruct existing decks within the existing approved footprint
John and Patricia Perry, 55 Madeline Road, East Falmouth, MA – For permission to repair a 
failed septic system
By Order of:
 Jamie Mathews, Chairman
 Falmouth Conservation Commission
Publication date: May 29, 2020      Code 5017
