CITY OF KINGS MOUNTAIN 
PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD MEETING 
TUESDAY, June 9, 2020  
5:30PM 
1. 5:30PM
Call Meeting to Order 
2. 5:31PM
Invocation 
3. 5:32PM
Pledge of Allegiance 
4. 5:33PM
Welcome 
5. 5:34PM
Roll Call 
6. 5:36PM
Adoption of Agenda 
Motion 
Second 
7. 5:37PM
Adoption of the May 12, 2020 Minutes 
Motion 
Second 
8. 5:38PM
Staff Report 
1. Comprehensive Plan
update 
9. 5:45PM
Old Business 
1. Property Owner: Sam Tsilimos
   Applicant:  Sam Tsilimos 
   Case Number:  
Z-1-12-19 
   Location: 409 S Battleground Ave, Kings Mountain, NC 
A. Staff Update
B. Motion to recommend approval or denial of Case Z-1-12-19
Motion 
Second 
C. Motion to Adopt Consistency Statement
Motion 
Second 
D. Motion to recommend to City Council
Motion 
Second 
10. 6:05PM
 Open Public Hearing 
11. 6:06PM
New Business 
1. Amend Zoning Ordinance Request
CITY OF KINGS MOUNTAIN 
PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD MEETING 
TUESDAY, June 9, 2020  
5:30PM 
 
A. Property Owner: Michael Bumgardner 
 
 
 
 
    Applicant: Michael Bumgardner 
 
 
 
 
    Case Number: A-1-2-20 
 
 
 
 
    Location: 1050 York Rd, Kings Mountain, NC 
 
 
 
 
B. Public Input 
 
 
 
 
 
C. Staff Report 
 
 
 
 
 
D. Close Public Hearing for case A-1-2-20 
 
 
 
 
 
Motion 
Second 
 
 
 
 
 
E. Motion to recommend approval or denial of case A-1-2-20 
 
 
 
 
 
Motion 
Second 
 
 
 
 
 
F. Motion to Adopt a Consistency Statement 
 
 
 
 
 
Motion  
Second 
 
 
 
 
 
G. Motion for proceed to City Council 
 
 
 
 
 
Motion 
Second 
 
11. 6:20PM 
 
Adjournment  
 
 
 
Motion 
 
Second 
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of Kings Mountain 
Planning and Zoning Board Meeting 
Tuesday, May 12, 2020 
5:30PM 
Via Teleconference/Zoom 
With Staff at the 
City Council Chambers 
Minutes 
 
Attendees via teleconference 
Attendees including Don Adkins-ETJ, Chris Jolly, Ron Humphries, Doug Lawing-ETJ, 
Renee Bost-ETJ, Ronnie Franks, Joseph Allen, Bobby Elliott, Audrey Cody & Maury 
Williams. 
 
Not Present: Todd Wilson 
 
Staff Present: Stuart Gilbert (in Council Chambers), Kimberly Herndon, Peggy 
Henderson, Jessica Collins. 
 
Call to Order 
Chairman Lawing called the Planning and Zoning Board Meeting to order on Tuesday 
May 12, 2020 at 5:30PM and Maury Williams gave the invocation. 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
The Planning and Zoning Board members recited the Pledge of Allegiance. 
 
Welcome 
Chairman Lawing welcomed everyone to the meeting.   
 
Adoption of the Agendas 
Chairman Lawing called for a motion to adopt the agenda. Ron Humphries made the 
motion to adopt the agenda and Joe Allen seconded the motion to adopt the agenda. 
The board voted unanimously to adopt the agenda as presented. 
 
Approval and Adoption of the March 10, 2020 Minutes 
Chairman Lawing called for a motion to approve and adopt the March 10, 2020 
minutes. Ronnie Franks made the motion to adopt the minutes as written and Bobby 
Elliott seconded the motion. The board voted unanimously to adopt the minutes as 
written. 
 
Staff Report 
Kimberly Herndon updated the board members on the Comprehensive Plan. A phone 
conference was conducted earlier this week with Gary Mitchell of Kendig Keast 
 
Collaborative (K.K.C.). Gary Mitchell will introduce himself via Video Conference Call 
at the City Council meeting on May 26, 2020. Council will be invited to discuss any 
questions they have with him. Staff reviewed with the board that in June they are 
hopefully going to have a joint workshop with City Council on the Comprehensive 
Plan. Kimberly Herndon requested each board member email her 2-3 stake holders in 
the community that should be interviewed with regard to Kings Mountain & future 
growth. Staff continues to work on the existing land use inventory. The Economic 
Development study being completed by Timmons Group will provide additional data 
for the Comp Plan. The ED study should be completed by early Summer of 2020.  
 
Staff has been working on a rough draft of an UDO and has a goal of it to be user 
friendly. With the COVID 19 setback there has been an unanticipated extension of the 
due date into mid-2021. 
 
Chairman Lawing opened public hearing with motion from Ron Humphries and second 
from Joseph Allen to open the public hearing. 
 
Old Business 
Property Owner: Sam Tsilimos 
Case Number: Z-1-12-19 
Location: 409 S Battleground Ave 
 
Mr. Tsilimos is working with architect Darryl Hall to determine the best option for 
using his property. With no additional information on Case Z-1-12-19, Chairman 
requested for a motion to continue. Don Atkins made the motion to continue and Joe 
Allen seconded the motion to continue Case Z-1-12-19. 
 
Adjournment 
Chairman Lawing called for a motion to adjourn. Ronnie Franks made the motion to 
adjourn and Bobby Elliot seconded the motion. The board voted unanimously to 
adjourn. 
 
Special Note 
Director, Stuart Gilbert, was present in the City Hall Lobby during the meeting and no 
members of the public presented themselves.  
 
__________________________ 
Doug Lawing, Chair 
 
 
__________________________ 
Jessica Collins, Secretary 
CASE 
Z-1-12-19
From:
Kimberly Herndon
To:
"Darryl Hall"
Cc:
Stuart Gilbert; Jessica Collins; Peggy Henderson
Subject:
RE: [External] Sam Tsilimos property
Date:
Friday, May 29, 2020 2:14:08 PM
Attachments:
image001.png
Darryl: 
Does Mr. Tsilimos have email? Does he understand that this is a multi-step process? 
1:            Rezoning to Residential for the entire lot
2:            Survey and subdivide the lot into 2 lots
3:            Apply for a zoning certificate for whatever he wants to put on the second lot
4:            Receive a ruling on whether the proposal is allowable or not
5:            Make decisions from there…which may or may not involve an appeal process. 
The rezoning is an application he has had open for several months and unless he plans to have a
business on the property, he will need to proceed with the rezoning request. Once the Planning
Board makes a recommendation it has to go back to City Council as well. 
Please let me know if I can be of help in some way…other than notifying you once our building is
reopened. 
Thanks, 
Kimberly   
From: Darryl Hall <darryl@fortisarch.com> 
Sent: Friday, May 29, 2020 12:09 PM
To: Kimberly Herndon <kimberly.herndon@cityofkm.com>
Subject: RE: [External] Sam Tsilimos property 
I got Sam on the phone. We’ll not push the panic button today, but will let it slide to July. He really
wants to sit down and talk about it and hopes you guys get open in the meantime. I warned him there
was no guarantees of you being able to open in the next month, but he wants to chance it. If you
open to the public for meetings, let me know and we’ll set something up.  I was hoping to get Sam to
go ahead with the rezoning, but he is willing to wait for he’s concerned about the marketability of a
duplex. 
Darryl Hall, RA
Fortis Architecture PLLC
704.491.1402 
From: Kimberly Herndon <kimberly.herndon@cityofkm.com> 
Sent: Friday, May 29, 2020 10:00 AM
To: Darryl Hall <darryl@fortisarch.com>
Subject: RE: [External] Sam Tsilimos property 
Darryl: 
I don’t know when we will open to the public. We can certainly meet in person and discuss the
process once we do open. Unfortunately, I don’t think his appeal meets the criteria for an
adjustment as he is creating the second lot for the purposes of development and knows in advance
that it doesn’t meet the current standards. He is however entitled to due process. 
As far as the rezoning to residential is concerned. I will need something in writing from Mr. Tsilimos
today in order to have the hearing at the June 9th meeting. It can be an email…or a note dropped off
or even faxed to us. 
If not, we will just continue the hearing for another month. 
Thanks, 
Kimberly 
From: Darryl Hall <darryl@fortisarch.com> 
Sent: Wednesday, May 27, 2020 1:14 PM
To: Kimberly Herndon <kimberly.herndon@cityofkm.com>
Subject: RE: [External] Sam Tsilimos property 
I’ve been on the phone with Sam and think I know what he wants. Because of his hearing, he would
prefer to meet in person. Is there a chance you’ll be open in the next week?  I’m not keeping up with
the opening phasing since I work from home and staying out of it as much as possible. If that is
really not feasible, we can do a conference call. When would be a good time to have it. Tomorrow
might be best so I can make sure I can get Sam on the phone at the same time. 
Just a heads up, I’m pushing him to proceed with rezoning. Retail will not work on that site with the
way the auto parts store blocks it and with the market the way it is.  Business is an option, but the
cost associated with changing that existing residence, it is very expensive, so that leaves residential. 
I had looked at wrong minimum size and with the comment about a desire for 1 bedroom
apartments, I thought that was a good use. I’ve given Sam an scheme for a duplex, that will fit but he
is pushing to do apartments, thinking the feasibility of them is better. I know this will be a process
and this is the issue we’re going back and forth on, and the one he wants to discuss with you.  
Let me know what works best on discussing this site. 
Darryl Hall, RA
Fortis Architecture PLLC
704.491.1402 
From: Kimberly Herndon <kimberly.herndon@cityofkm.com> 
Sent: Wednesday, May 27, 2020 11:17 AM
To: Darryl Hall <darryl@fortisarch.com>
Subject: Sam Tsilimos property 
Darryl: 
I’m just following up to see if we need to get a conference call scheduled sometime this afternoon or
tomorrow? I need to know whether Mr. Tsilimos is moving forward with the Residential request,
withdrawing the request, or still thinking about the request…? 
Thanks, 
Kimberly
Kimberly Herndon
Senior Planner 
City of Kings Mountain
101 Gold Street
P.O. Box 429
Kings Mountain, NC 28086
704.730.2103    
This email has been scanned for spam and viruses by Proofpoint Essentials. Click here to
report this email as spam.   
This email has been scanned for spam and viruses by Proofpoint Essentials. Click here to
report this email as spam. 
Case 
A-1-2-20
 
 
   Larry Bumgardner 
   441 El Bethel Rd 
   Kings Mountain NC 28086 
   PARCEL 63398 
  
    Ruth Allen 
    1058 York Rd 
    Kings Mountain NC 28086 
    PARCEL 12773 
 
      Rockwood Lithium 
      c/o Albemarle Corp 
      451 Florida St 
      Baton Rouge LA 70801 
      PARCEL 12766 
  
     
       Dean Adams 
       1424 Long Branch Rd 
       Grover NC 28073 
        PARCEL 8991 
 
 
 
 
     William Reel 
     1038 York Rd 
     Kings Mountain NC 28086 
     PARCEL 50655 
 
  
       
    
 
                                                         
    
     Eugene White 
     1052 York Rd 
     Kings Mountain NC 28086   
     PARCEL 42730 
  
    Charles Hord 
   1054 York Rd 
   Kings Mountain  NC 28086 
   PARCEL 12772 
  
CITY OF KINGS MOUNTAIN 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING 
AND 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING 
PLANNING BOARD MEETING, June 9, 2020 – 5:30 PM 
CITY COUNCIL MEETING June 30, 2020 – 6:00 PM 
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS 
CITY HALL 
 
 
CASE NO. A-1-2-20 
Michael Bumgardner, owner, is requesting to Amend the Kings Mountain Zoning 
Ordinance for property located at 1050 York Rd for removal from the literal 
provisions of the City of Kings Mountains (TP) Thoroughfare Protection Overlay 
Section 6.16 Overlay Districts (3) which will remove the property from the Official 
Overlay District Map. The property is identified as Map 4-79 Block 1 Lot 45, Parcel 
Identification Number of 63398, Cleveland County, NC commonly known as 1050 
York Rd Kings Mountain, NC 28086. The owner’s plans for the request will be a 
Saw Mill. 
 
A copy of the application may be obtained at the Planning Department or you 
may call 704-734-4595 for additional information. 
 
Given N.C. Governor Roy’s Cooper’s orders that limit the size of gatherings, the Planning and Zoning 
Board meeting and City Council meeting will be held with some virtual meeting opportunities to all 
citizens to provide comments without physically coming to the meetings. The City Council meeting will 
be available   “live” on Facebook at www.facebook.com/cityofkingsmountain and the general public will 
have the opportunity to comment and ask questions during the public hearing and during the citizen 
engagement portion of the meeting by calling 704-734-4497. Anyone that would rather provide their 
comments via a phone call in the Planning and Zoning Board meeting or provide written comments for 
the Planning and Zoning Board meeting should either provide their written comments and or call the 
Planning Department at 704-734-4595 by Monday June 8, 2020 at noon. 
 
You are welcome to attend the Planning Board Public Meeting on June 9, 2020 at 
5:30 pm and the City Council Public Hearing on June 30, 2020 at 6:00 pm to 
express your opinion on the application. 
 
 
 
KM Herald 
Affidavit Required 
 
Publish (2) times: May 27, 2020 and June 3, 2020 
 
Purchase Order No.: ___________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSISTENCY STATEMENT 
AMENDMENT OF THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP 
Michael Bumgardner 
A-1-2-20 
105 York Rd 
Tax Map 4-79, Block 1, Lot45 of County of Cleveland 
CASE # TO A-1-2-20 
In conformity with NCGS 160A and 153A-341 the Planning Board must adopt one of the following three 
statements: 
1. CONSISTENCY STATEMENT “AGAINST” THE PROPOSED ZONING MAP AMENDMENT (Used when the 
Proposed zoning amendment is inconsistent with Adopted Comprehensive Plan and other applicable public 
policies) 
The proposed amendment to the Kings Mountain Official Zoning Map is inconsistent with the adopted 
Comprehensive Plan for the following reasons: 
• 
The property is located in front of the site is zoned residential.  
• 
The lack of the secondary overlay district would permit heavy industrial uses that would not be allowed if 
the zoning overlay district requirements remained in place.   
• 
The proposed heavy industrial use is an extremely traffic intensive use that is not compatible with the 
surrounding area. 
• 
Without the overlay district secondary zoning requirements, the design guidelines requiring that all uses 
be located inside buildings would not be required. 
• 
Many industries that allow open storage and open sheds would be allowed adjacent to residential 
properties.  
• 
The Comprehensive Plan boundaries were established in 1995 when the Plan was developed and adopted 
by City Council. 
a. The property located in front of the site is zoned residential. The lack of the secondary overlay 
district would permit heavy industrial uses that would not be allowed without the zoning overlay 
district.  
b. The proposed heavy industrial use is an extremely traffic intensive use that is not compatible 
with the surrounding area. 
c. 
Without the overlay district secondary zoning requirements, the design guidelines requiring that 
all uses be located inside buildings would not be required.  
d. The Comprehensive Plan boundaries were established in 1995 when the Plan was developed and 
adopted by City Council. 
e. The action being taken is therefore considered to be reasonable and in the public interest 
because no adopted public policy context exists upon which to assess the worthiness of the 
requested zoning change. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. CONSISTENCY STATEMENT “IN FAVOR OF” THE PROPOSED ZONING MAP AMENDMENT (Used when the 
proposed zoning amendment is consistent with adopted Comprehensive Plan and other applicable public 
policies.) 
The proposed amendment to the Kings Mountain Official Zoning Map is considered to be an amendment to 
the Comprehensive Plan, to which the Kings Mountain City Council shall require no additional request or 
application for amendment to the Comprehensive Plan, and 
As part of considered the proposed amendment, the Kings Mountain City Council took into account the 
following changes in conditions in order to meet the development needs of the community. 
a. The subject property is not officially located on the front of York Road.  
b. The Plan boundaries were limited to the areas which at the time was located within the then Kings 
Mountain municipal boundaries.  
The proposed amendment has been determined to be reasonable and in the public interest because 
a. The site and the area contain natural features mature vegetation ) which may allow better compatibility 
with low density residential development than non mature vegetation, and 
 
3. CONSISTENCY STATE “IN FAVOR OF” THE PROPOSED ZONING MAP AMENDMENT (Used when the 
proposed zoning amendment is inconsistent with adopted Comprehensive Plan and other applicable public 
polices, but recommendation is made in favor of the proposed amendment.) 
The proposed amendment to the Kings Mountain Official Zoning Map is inconsistent with the adopted 
Comprehensive Plan for the following reasons: 
• 
The property is located in front of the site is zoned residential.  
• 
The lack of the secondary overlay district would permit heavy industrial uses that would not be allowed if 
the zoning overlay district requirements remained in place.   
• 
The proposed heavy industrial use is an extremely traffic intensive use that is not compatible with the 
surrounding area. 
• 
Without the overlay district secondary zoning requirements, the design guidelines requiring that all uses 
be located inside buildings would not be required. 
• 
Many industries that allow open storage and open sheds would be allowed adjacent to residential 
properties.  
• 
The Comprehensive Plan boundaries were established in 1995 when the Plan was developed and adopted 
by City Council. 
The proposed amendment is recommended because some new jobs correlated to a sawmill may be produced on 
the site. 
 
Additional Information for 
Packet
Information added 
6/8/2020 at 2:30
