 
1 
PITT COUNTY BOARD OF SOCIAL SERVICES 
REGULAR SESSION 
 
 
May 12, 2020 
 
The Pitt County Board of Social Services met in Regular Session at 4:00 p.m. on this date in the Eugene James 
Auditorium located on the second floor of the Pitt County Office Building, 1717 W. 5th Street, Greenville, N.C.  The 
purpose of this meeting was to conduct the official business of the Pitt County Board of Social Services.  Board 
members and Management Team staff present: 
 
Board Members 
 
 Agency Staff  
 
 
County Manager Rep. 
Members Participating 
 
Members Present 
 
 
Members Present 
James Cox, Chair – Remote 
 
Jan Y. Elliott, Director 
 
 
Brian Barnett 
Shelia Bunch, Vice Chair - Remote 
 
 
 
 
 
Catherine Nelson - Remote 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Darone Dancy – Remote  
Mary Perkins-Williams - Remote  
 
    
 
 
 
Call to Order 
 
Chair Cox called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.   
 
Moment of Silent Prayer 
 
Chair Cox offered a moment of silent prayer or meditation before the meeting began. 
 
Adopt or Revise the Agenda 
 
Item presented by: 
Chair Cox 
  
Discussion: 
The agenda for today's meeting was reviewed by the Board.   
 
Motion Made: 
 
To approve the agenda as presented. 
Motion Made by:   
Mary Perkins-Williams 
Motion seconded by: 
Catherine Nelson 
Motion passed:  
The motion was passed unanimously. 
 
Action on minutes of previous meeting 
 
Item presented by: 
Chair Cox 
Item Description: 
Minutes of the April meeting 
Discussion: 
Chair Cox asked if there were any revisions to be made to the minutes of the April 
meeting.  
 
Motion Made: 
To accept the minutes as presented. 
Motion Made by: 
Catherine Nelson 
 
Motion seconded by: 
Shelia Bunch 
Motion passed:  
Unanimous 
 
Introduction of New Hires 
 
Ms. Elliott introduced the new hires, Toshi James, Taylor Skeens and Towanda Davis to the Board.  The Board 
welcomed them. 
 
Items for Report 
 
Item Presented: 
Covid-19 Update 
 
2 
Item Presented by: 
Jan Elliott, Director 
 
Ms. Elliott went over the power point.  Noted the FNS applications have doubled.  Of the P-EBT being issued, 
statewide 65% of the families don’t get FNS but they qualify for the P-EBT as their children get free or reduced 
lunches.  The P-EBT card looks different from the regular EBT card.  Ms. Perkins-Williams asked if the issued card 
goes to the parent and is it per child.  Ms. Elliott replied that all the eligible children in the household are combined 
on one card and it will be sent to the head of the household (if it’s for a foster child) or to the parent.  FNS recipients 
can now order food online through Walmart or Amazon.  There is a service fee if ordering online, which does not 
come out of the P-FNS amount.  It must be paid separately on another credit/debit card.  Ms. Perkins-Williams 
asked if the parent/head of household had to order online or could they still shop at the store.  Ms. Elliott stated they 
could, the online was just another option for those who preferred to maintain social distance.  An additional $265 per 
eligible child in the month of April is being added to TANF payments.  Should be about 300 children in Pitt County.  
Foster Care homes/facilities will also get additional monies to offset the costs of the schools being out.  Ms. Perkins-
Williams asked if staff has to see clients and how were we protecting them.  Ms. Elliott answered that PPEs, masks, 
gloves and sanitizers are provided to the staff going out in the field.  The receptionists are behind glass.  The 
remaining staff rarely see clients as they can do phone interviews during this time.  Ms. Perkins-Williams inquired if 
they had lines or of they were seen by appointment.  Ms. Elliott replied it has not been an issue.  There are floor 
markers to designate where to stand.  Chair Cox recognized the staff for their work and dedication. 
 
Item for Decision 
 
Item Presented: 
Rules of Procedure 
Item Presented by: 
James Cox, Chair 
 
Chair Cox noted it’s been discussed and reviewed at a previous meeting, it’s time to vote on it.  Opened the floor for 
comments and questions.  Ms. Nelson and Ms. Bunch both stated they were good with the document as it had 
incorporated all of their recommendations.   
 
Motion Made: 
To approve the Rules of Procedure as presented. 
Motion Made by: 
Catherine Nelson  
Motion seconded by: 
Darone Dancy 
Motion passed:  
Unanimous 
 
Director’s Report 
 
Ms. Elliott stated the normal reports were included and the staff are still meeting the requirements.  Noted the 
County has frozen all vacancies at this time, can’t advertise, interview or make job offers.  Knows there may be 
some negative results from this due to having fewer staff.  Ms. Perkins-Williams asked about staff morale.  Ms. 
Elliott answered it is a stressful time for staff.  They are real troopers.  She’s trying to be as encouraging as possible 
with daily updates in the beginning to just a couple of times a week now, did get cookies donated from a group as a 
thank you to our staff.  Ms. Perkins-Williams stated her appreciation to Ms. Elliott for all that she has been doing 
during this difficult time.  Ms. Elliott then had a Child Abuse Prevention video played.  Thanked PIO for their work on 
the video stating they did a great job. 
  
Board Member Comments 
 
Chair Cox read a letter from the Board to the staff noting their appreciation for the staff’s hard work and dedication. 
  
Motion:  
 
Motion made to adjourn 
Motion Presented by: 
Mary Perkins-Williams 
Motion Seconded by: 
Shelia Bunch 
Motion passed:  
Motion passed unanimously 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jan Y. Elliott 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
James Cox 
Director  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chair 
 
Susan May 
Clerk to the Board 
 
  
 
