AMENDED
REGULAR MEETING
CITY OF ROSWELL COUNCIL - AGENDA
THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2020
Roswell Convention & Civic Center
Meeting Room A - 912 N. Main St.
Roswell, New Mexico 88201
Notice of this meeting has been given to the public in compliance with Sections 10-15-1 through 10-15-4 NMSA
1978 and Resolution No. 20-26. Except for emergency matters, the City Council shall take action only on the specific
items listed on the Agenda.
JUNE 11, 2020
MAYOR - Dennis J. Kintigh
6:00 p.m.
Ward 1
Jacob R. Roebuck
Juan Oropesa
Ward II
Margaret Kennard
Jason Perry
Ward III
Judy Stubbs
Jeanine Best
Ward IV
George G. Peterson
Savino Sanchez Jr.
Ward V
Angela G. Moore
Barry Foster 
WELCOME! We are very glad you have joined us for the Roswell City Council meeting. If you wish to speak, please sign up at the podium prior to
6:00 p.m. In compliance with Resolution 20-26, all matters listed under Consent Items/Consent Agenda are considered routine by the City
Council and will be approved by one motion. There will be no separate discussion on these items. If any member of the council desires to discuss
the matter, that item will be removed from the consent agenda and will be considered separately. Any item approved as part of the consent
agenda is not an agenda item for the purpose of public participation. The Council is pleased to hear relevant comments; however, a 3-minute limit
is set in accordance with Resolution 17-65 (Governing Body Rules of Order). Large groups are asked to name a spokesperson. Robert's Rules
of Order govern the conduct of the meeting. "THANK YOU" for participating in your City Government.
OPENING CEREMONIES 
Call to Order by Presiding Officer
Roll Call & Determination of Quorum
Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag and Invocation
Agenda/Consent Items/Minutes from the May 14, 2020, regular City Council meeting.
1.
Approval of the agenda - Consider approval of the agenda for the June 11, 2020, regular City Council
meeting. (Stubbs/Coll)
NON-ACTION ITEMS (Information Items)
2.
MAYOR KINTIGH's ANNOUNCEMETNS / REPORTS
For information only.
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION ON AGENDA ITEMS
In order to speak you must sign up prior to the Council Meeting.
CONSENT ITEMS - AS PER RESOLUTION 19-38
Bids, RFP's and Agreements
p. 5
p. 6
3.
RFP-20-003 - RTF Facility Sale - Consider recommendation of termination of RFP-20-003 (2nd Posting)
City Property Sale, Roswell Test Facility (RTF).
4.
ITB-20-010, E. 5th St. Sewer Rehab Project Phase II - Consider award of ITB-20-010, E. 5th St. Sewer
Rehab Project Phase II to J&H Services of Albuquerque, NM in the amount of $161,744.56, which
includes GRT.
5.
Consider approval of the Adoption of the Interlibrary Loan Code for the United States for the Roswell
Public Library.
6.
RFP-20-009 - Consider Scope of Service for RFP-20-009 issuance for the preparation of a concept and
engineering plans within the Railroad District MRA bounded by Walnut Street to 3rd Street, and between
the BNSF Railroad corridor and Virginia Avenue for the Roswell Market Walk Project “Great Blocks on
MainStreet”.
ROW Leases
7.
Consider approval to authorize The FIS Company, Inc., a New Mexico Corporation, to enter into a new
lease agreement for an area of land located between hangar 1532 and hangar 1533.
Resolution(s)
8.
Resolution 20-31 - Weeds - The Resolution shall mandate the cleanup of approximately ninety-five (95)
separate properties within the City.
9.
Resolution 20-32 - Condemnations - The Resolution shall require the removal or demolition of fifteen (15)
dilapidated structures.
10.
Resolution 20-33 - Consider approval of Resolution 20-33, authorizing the Mayor to accept funding
assistance from the Federal Aviation Administration on behalf of the City of Roswell.
11.
Resolution 20-34 - Consider approval of Resolution 20-34, authorizing the City Manager to apply for,
accept and execute Grant Agreements for funding assistance from the state of New Mexico Aviation
Division on behalf of the City of Roswell for project development at the Roswell Air Center.
Minutes
12.
Consider approval of the minutes from the May 14, 2020, regular City Council meeting.
NEW BUSINESS / REGULAR ITEMS
Request(s)
13.
Resolution 20-35 - Consider approval of Resolution 20-35 adopting the new funds for the Museum & Art
Center, Spring River Zoo, and the Nancy Lopez at Spring River Golf Fund.
14.
Consider approval of Mayor Kintigh's recommendations for the Planning & Zoning Commission.
p. 7
p. 9
p. 12
p. 18
p. 20
p. 32
p. 43
p. 10
p. 50
p. 52
p. 61
14.
Consider approval of Mayor Kintigh's recommendations for the Planning & Zoning Commission.
(Stubbs/Coll)
Position 1 - Daniel Lopez
Position 3 - Steve Henderson
Position 5 - Jessie McDaniel
Position 6 - David Storey
15.
Consider approval of Mayor Kintigh's recommendations for the Keep Roswell Beautiful Board. Two year
terms. (Stubbs/Coll)
Position 1 - Matthew Pacheco 
Position 2 - Megan Cedarberg 
Position 3 - Mike Clarke
16.
Consider approval of the Business Retention, Expansion, and Economic Development Services, between
the City and the Roswell-Chaves County Economic Development Corporation. (Stubbs/Jennings)
17.
Proposed Ordinance 20-06 – Airport Hazards and Obstructions – Consider approval to advertise for a
public hearing and vote on Proposed Ordinance 20-06 relating to modifying Article 4 (Definitions) and
adding a new Article 52, Section 18. (Stubbs/Morris)
18.
Proposed Ordinance 20-07 - Consider approval to advertise for a public hearing and vote on Proposed
Ordinance 20-07 Revising the Airport Ord, Chapter 5 of the Roswell City Code. (Stubbs/Morris)
19.
RFP-20-008 WAYFINDING  - Consider Scope of Service for RFP-20-008 WAYFINDING issuance for the
preparation of a strategy & analysis, brand integration design, fabrication, and installation of Wayfinding
for the City of Roswell.
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS
In order to speak you must sign up prior to the Council Meeting.
Closed Session
20.
Hold a closed session -  (Stubbs/Patterson)
• pursuant to NMSA 1978, § 10-15-1H (2), to discuss limited personnel matters relating to the City
Manager's evaluation.
• pursuant to NMSA 1978, § 10-15-1H (8) to discuss the purchase, acquisition or disposal of real property
or water rights relating to property located at the Roswell Air Center.
• pursuant to NMSA 1978 § 10-15-1H (7), to discuss attorney-client privilege pertaining to threatened or
pending litigation in which the City of Roswell is or may become a participant pertaining to city-owned
rental property at the Roswell Air Center, with the State of New Mexico and management service
contracts.
CITY MANAGER REPORTS/ANNOUNCEMENTS
(Information Only)
Adjournment
If you are an individual with a disability who is in need of a reader, amplifier, qualified sign language interpreter, or any other
p. 63
p. 64
p. 65
p. 76
p. 80
p. 87
p. 91
If you are an individual with a disability who is in need of a reader, amplifier, qualified sign language interpreter, or any other
form of auxiliary aid or service to attend or participate in the hearing or meeting, please contact Human Resources at
575-624-6700 at least one week prior to the meeting or as soon as possible. Public documents including the agenda and
minutes can be provided in various accessible formats. Please contact the City Clerk at 575-624-6700 if a summary of other
type of accessible format is needed.
Printed and posted: Friday, June 5, 2020
  
THE PUBLIC IS ENCOURAGED TO PARTICIPATE ELECTRONICALLY THROUGH THE GO-TO-MEETING
APPLICATION AND NOT PHYSICALLY ATTEND DURING THE PANDEMIC.
 
City Council Meeting 
Thu, Jun 11, 2020 6:00 PM - 9:00 PM (MDT) 
 
Please join my meeting from your computer, tablet or smartphone. 
https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/453843637 
 
You can also dial in using your phone. 
United States: +1 (312) 757-3121 
 
Access Code: 453-843-637 
 
New to GoToMeeting? Get the app now and be ready when your first meeting starts: 
https://global.gotomeeting.com/install/453843637 
Help desk - 500-0587
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
1.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
N/A
 
CONTACT: 
Sharon Coll
CHAIR: 
N/A
ACTION REQUESTED:
Approval of the agenda - Consider approval of the agenda for the June 11, 2020, regular City Council meeting.
(Stubbs/Coll)
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by: City Council
 
Approval of the agenda for the June 11, 2020, regular City Council meeting.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
There are no financial costs.
LEGAL REVIEW:
The approval of the agenda takes the majority of the members of a quorum present.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
There is no board or committee review.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider approval of the agenda for the June 11, 2020, regular City Council meeting. 
5
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
2.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
N/A
 
CONTACT: 
Sharon Coll
CHAIR: 
N/A
ACTION REQUESTED:
MAYOR KINTIGH's ANNOUNCEMETNS / REPORTS
For information only.
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by:  Mayor Kintigh
For Information only.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
There are no financial impacts.
LEGAL REVIEW:
There is no legal review.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
There is no board or committee review.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
For information only.
6
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
3.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
General Service
 
CONTACT: 
Juan Fuentes
CHAIR: 
Barry Foster
ACTION REQUESTED:
RFP-20-003 - RTF Facility Sale - Consider recommendation of termination of RFP-20-003 (2nd Posting) City
Property Sale, Roswell Test Facility (RTF).
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by: William Morris, AICP, CZO, Dir.
 
The Evaluation Committee recommended to reject this proposal which would allow staff to negotiate with other
parties since this is the second attempt to achieve a successful RFP.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
There are no financial impacts at this time.
LEGAL REVIEW:
The Legal department has reviewed this time.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
The General Services Committee recommended (4-0) approval at their meeting on May 23, 2020.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider recommendation of termination of RFP-20-003 (2nd Posting) City Property Sale, Roswell Test Facility
(RTF).
Attachments
ATT 1 20-003 Termination Letter 
7
8
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
4.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
General Service
 
CONTACT: 
Juan Fuentes
CHAIR: 
Barry Foster
ACTION REQUESTED:
ITB-20-010, E. 5th St. Sewer Rehab Project Phase II - Consider award of ITB-20-010, E. 5th St. Sewer Rehab
Project Phase II to J&H Services of Albuquerque, NM in the amount of $161,744.56, which includes GRT.
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by: Louis Najar
 
Bid opening for ITB-20-010 was held on April 14, 2020.  Three bids were received.  Upon review of bids, J&H
Services Inc. is recommended as the lowest qualified bid.  Attached is award recommendation letter and bid
tabulation.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
The FY2020 Sewer Department budget is funding this project. 
LEGAL REVIEW:
Legal is not required to view at this time.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
The General Services Committee recommended (4-0) to award ITB-20-010, E. 5th St. Sewer Rehab Project Phase
II to J&H Services of Albuquerque, NM in the amount of $161,744.56 and to send to the June 11, 2020 City Council
on the consent agenda.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider award of ITB-20-010, E. 5th St. Sewer Rehab Project Phase II to J&H Services of Albuquerque, NM in
the amount of $161,744.56, which includes GRT.
Attachments
ATT 1 ITB 20-010 E. 5th Sewer Phase II 
ATT 2 ITB 20-010 E. 5th Sewer Bid Tabulation 
9
                                                                                                                                                   April 17, 2020 
To:  Lupita Everett 
        Chief Procurement Officer 
 
 
Re:  Recommendation of Award 
        E. 5th St. Sewer Rehab Project Phase II 
        Bid No. ITB-20-010 
 
Bids received on April 14, 2020 for the subject project have been reviewed. A Bid Tabulation 
Sheet is attached. Engineer’s estimate was $187,737.78.  Three bids were received as follows:        
(Amounts include Tax of 7.8333%)  
 
1. Ferguson Construction of Lovington, NM  :     
$  73,191.85 
2. J&H Services of Albuquerque, NM: 
$161,744.56 
3. Adame Construction of Los Lunas, NM 
$185,958.53 
 
Upon completion of review, the low bid from Ferguson Construction is rejected.  This bid is 
deemed unbalanced.  Review of the bid costs, show the bid amounts were undervalued.  Upon 
further review, Ferguson Construction did not visit the site prior to bidding per Section 5 of 
INSTRUCTION AND INFORMATION FOR BIDDERS stated in the bid documents. 
 
Thus, the 2nd low bidder J&H Services is deemed the qualified low bid.  I hereby recommend 
award of this project to J&H Services of Albuquerque, NM in the amount of $161,744.56.   
 
 
If you have any questions please contact me. 
 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
 
 
 
Louis Najar, P.E. 
City Engineer 
 
10
11
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
5.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
General Service
 
CONTACT: 
Juan Fuentes
CHAIR: 
Barry Foster
ACTION REQUESTED:
Consider approval of the Adoption of the Interlibrary Loan Code for the United States for the Roswell Public
Library. 
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by: Enid Costly
 
In 2020, the Roswell Public Library cancelled cataloging services with the vendor OCLC. As a result, our records
with OCLC have not been updated and OCLC will not provide an interlibrary loan module to the Roswell Public
Library after June 30, 2020. The alternative is to use the ILLiad Interlibrary Loan System through the New Mexico
State Library. To participate in ILLiad Interlibrary Loan System, Roswell Public Library must agree to the Interlibrary
Loan Code for the United States. A copy of the Interlibrary Loan Code for the United States is attached with
explanatory statements. 
 
Interlibrary Loan Service is considered a basic service for New Mexico Public Libraries. Basic services are provided
free to the public and are required to be considered a public library in New Mexico. Providing basic library services
is required to receive State Aid Funds. 
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
There are no new costs to us to use the ILLiad Interlibrary Loan System. The ILLiad Interlibrary Loan System is
offered free to public libraries in New Mexico who do not subscribe to OCLC services. We already pay postage
when sending items to a library for the items we are loaning. We also pay the postage to items, which we return to
a loaning library. We use State Aid Funds to pay for the postage for Interlibrary Loan items. 
LEGAL REVIEW:
The City Attorney has reviewed the Interlibrary Loan Code for the United States on May 20, 2020. 
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
The General Services Committee voted 4-0 to recommend approval at their meeting on Wednesday, May 27,
2020. 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider approving the adoption of the Interlibrary Loan Code for the United States for the Roswell Public Library. 
Attachments
ATT 1 Interlibrary Loan Code 
12
13
14
15
16
17
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
6.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
Finance
 
CONTACT: 
Monica Garcia
CHAIR: 
Jason Perry
ACTION REQUESTED:
RFP-20-009 - Consider Scope of Service for RFP-20-009 issuance for the preparation of a concept and engineering
plans within the Railroad District MRA bounded by Walnut Street to 3rd Street, and between the BNSF Railroad
corridor and Virginia Avenue for the Roswell Market Walk Project “Great Blocks on MainStreet”.
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by: Juanita Jennings, Public Affairs Director
 
The City and MainStreet Roswell have been awarded a grant in the amount of $100,000 for the development of a
concept plan and engineering plans for an 3-block area in the Railroad District MRA that will provide for pedestrian
activities in the target area.
 
In conjunction with this RFP, previously, staff had initiated and completed a modification of the boundaries for both
MainStreet Roswell and the Railroad District MRA to assist this project.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
There will be a 20% match that the City will need to contribute to.
LEGAL REVIEW:
Legal review will be performed at a later time following the selection of an appropriate planning and engineering
firm.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
The Finance Committee recommended (4-0) approval at their meeting on June 4, 2020.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider Scope of Service for RFP-20-009 issuance for the preparation of a Concept Plan and engineering plans
for within the Railroad District MRA bounded by Walnut Street to 3rd Street, and between the BNSF Railroad
corridor and Virginia Avenue.
Attachments
ATT 1 Roswell MarketWalk 
18
CITY OF ROSWELL 
 
 
Scope of Services: 
 
A. Purpose of This Request for Proposals 
 
The purpose of the Request for Proposal (RFP) is for the City of Roswell (City) to solicit 
sealed proposals from qualiﬁed professional Landscape Architects (offerors) to establish 
a contract through competitive negotiations for the procurement of “Great Blocks on 
MainStreet” Concept Plan and Engineering Drawings for the City of Roswell. 
 
B. Background 
 
The City received a grant from the Economic Development Department in the amount of 
$120,000 to be used in accordance with the MainStreet Capital Appropriation Project 
Grant Agreement for the revitalization of an area within the Railroad District Metropolitan 
Redevelopment Area (MRA) as part of the New Mexico Main Street and NM Economic 
Development Department’s Great Blocks on MainStreet program. 
The City of Roswell along with the awarded Contractor, thru a community participation 
process, shall generate construction design plans incorporating a vision and strategy for 
revitalizing a three block area that is part of Roswell MainStreet, to attract specialty 
retailers and service providers and amplifying the Railroad District MRA’s role as the 
historic center for culture and arts. 
 
C. Scope of Work To Be Performed 
 
The Contractor will prepare a Concept Plan to re-design three blocks within the Roswell 
MainStreet in the area identiﬁed as the Railroad District MRA that will run north from 
Walnut Street to 3rd Street, between the BNSF Railroad corridor and Virginia Avenue, and 
emphasize the alley that runs north between Virginia Avenue and the Railroad corridor.  
The work will include a Concept Plan, as well as any engineering plans needed to 
implement the approved Concept Plan. 
19
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
7.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
Legal
 
CONTACT: 
Parker Patterson
CHAIR: 
Judy Stubbs
ACTION REQUESTED:
Consider approval to authorize The FIS Company, Inc., a New Mexico Corporation, to enter into a new lease
agreement for an area of land located between hangar 1532 and hangar 1533.
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by: Scott Stark/Mark Bleth
The FIS Company, Inc. requests the area of land, 19,000 square feet, more or less, for the purpose of constructing
an aircraft hangar for aircraft component repair and storage. Term is July 1, 2020 through June 30, 2050.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
Rent amount is $348 monthly; $4,176 annually for the first year, thereafter rent will increase annually by CPI-Urban
all cities average or 3%, whichever is greater.
LEGAL REVIEW:
The Legal Department has reviewed the Lease. Leases and other contractual agreements generally require City
Council approval.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
The Legal Committee recommended (3-0) approval at their meeting on Thursday, May 28, 2020.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider approval to authorize The FIS Company, Inc., a New Mexico Corporation, to enter into a new lease
agreement for an area of land located between hangar 1532 and hangar 1533.
Attachments
ATT 1 The FIS Company 
20
LEASE AGREEMENT 
Page 1 of 11 
THE FIS COMPANY Lease July ‘20 
 
 
 
 
 
Tenant Initials________  
THIS LEASE executed in Roswell, New Mexico on this 11th day of June, 2020 by and between the 
CITY OF ROSWELL, NEW MEXICO, a municipal corporation, hereinafter designated “Landlord”, 
and THE FIS COMPANY INC, a New Mexico corporation, hereinafter designated as “Tenant”. 
 
WHEREAS Landlord has agreed to lease to Tenant the real property described below, together with the 
improvements thereon, in Chaves County New Mexico, and Tenant has agreed to lease said real property 
and improvements from Landlord; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, the 
parties agree as follows 
 
1. GRANTING CLAUSE AND PREMISES.  For the term, at the rent and otherwise upon the 
terms, provisions and conditions contained herein, Landlord hereby lets and leases unto Tenant the 
surface only to the following real property, together with all improvements located thereon:  
 
2.  TERM.  The Lease term is for Thirty (30) years, commencing on July 1, 2020 and ending 
June 30, 2050 unless sooner terminated by provision hereof. 
 
3.  RENT.  Tenant agrees to pay to Landlord as rent the sum of Four Thousand One Hundred 
Seventy Six Dollars ($4,176.00), payable in twelve (12) monthly payments of $348.00 for the first year. 
Thereafter rent will increase annually by CPI-Urban all cities average or 3%, whichever is greater. Rent and 
other fees are due on the first day of each month.  If Tenant fails to pay all rent and other fees due for 
any month by the tenth calendar day of the month that said rent and fees are due, Tenant shall pay to 
Landlord an additional 2% finance charge, as a penalty, each month until the full amount of that month’s 
rent is paid.  This penalty shall be immediately payable without limiting Landlord in the exercise of any 
other right or remedy to which it may be entitled by reason of Tenant’s failure to pay rent when due. All 
rent shall be paid to Landlord without abatement, reduction or set off of any kind except as herein 
specifically provided.   
 
4.  SECURITY DEPOSIT.  Tenant has paid $250.00 in advance as security for Tenant’s full 
and faithful performance of all terms of this lease.  This amount shall be used by Landlord at the 
termination of this Lease Agreement toward a. payment for rent or penalties due Landlord, b. 
reimbursement of the costs of cleaning and repairing damages (beyond normal wear and tear) to the 
Premises and c. the cost of removal of any hazardous material not properly disposed of by Tenant.  
Landlord shall be the sole and reasonable judge of all cleaning and repairs required for the Premises 
and the amounts needed for these purposes.  Upon termination or expiration of this Lease the security 
deposit shall first be applied to necessary cleaning and removal, repairs and the remaining balance, if 
any, may then be applied to rentals and penalties then owing to Landlord.  Any refund of the security 
deposit due Tenant will be delivered or mailed  in accordance with Paragraph 26 of this Agreement 
within 60 days after the termination of this Lease Agreement. 
 
An area of land consisting of 19,000 square feet, more or less, located between hangar 1532 and hangar 1533 at the Roswell Air 
Center, identified on a plat attached hereto and made a part hereof, identified and listed as Exhibit "A" (Premises). 
21
 
Page 2 of 11 
THE FIS COMPANY Lease July ‘20 
 
 
 
 
 
Tenant Initials________  
5. CONDITION OF PREMISES.  Tenant has inspected Premises and accepts the Premises in 
its present condition “as is”. Tenant acknowledges that any requirements for accessibility and/or public 
accommodation(s) are Tenant’s responsibility.  Tenant agrees that the Premises is in good repair and 
condition except as noted herein.  Tenant agrees that, at the expiration of the term hereof, it shall yield 
up and deliver the Premises with improvements to Landlord in as good repair and condition, broom 
clean, as when received, except for loss resulting from ordinary use and wear.  The condition of the 
subject property at acceptance is as follows: 
 
6.   MAINTENANCE. 
a. Tenant shall maintain the Premises in a safe and clean condition, in good order and 
repair.  Tenant further agrees to maintain and repair, at its sole cost and expense, the Premises, 
including improvements, and the taxiway leading to the Premises in a clean and policed condition at 
all times and to keep trees, shrubbery, and grass irrigated, trimmed and attractively maintained. 
 
b. Further, Tenant shall maintain and replace when necessary the plumbing and 
electrical systems as well as all glass, heating, air conditioning, and other similar fixtures and 
equipment located on or in any portion of the Premises. 
 
c. Tenant shall make necessary corrections and/or adjustments to maintenance 
practices as inspections reasonably determine.  Landlord shall be the sole and reasonable judge of the 
quality of maintenance and, upon written notice by Landlord to Tenant, Tenant shall be required to 
perform whatever maintenance Landlord deems reasonably necessary, provided, however, such 
maintenance shall be consistent in quality with that required of other City Tenants in comparable 
facilities.  If said maintenance is not undertaken by Tenant within ten (10) days after the date Landlord 
gives Tenant written notice of corrections needed, Landlord shall have the right to enter upon the 
Premises and perform the necessary maintenance, the cost of which shall be two times the cost for 
parts and labor and borne by Tenant. 
 
7.  TAXES, LICENSES AND UTILITIES.  During the term hereof, Tenant shall pay all 
taxes, licenses, charges, fees or assessments levied or to be levied upon personal-property, fixtures or 
equipment placed by Tenant upon said Premises, of whatsoever kind or nature, incident to or arising 
out of the conduct of Tenant’s business.  Failure to have an appropriate current license or permit shall 
be a breach of this Lease.  Tenant shall, at its expense, bring any utilities required to the premises. 
Tenant shall pay all utilities used on the Premises, including but not limited to telephone, electricity, 
gas, and water.  
 
8.  PERSONAL PROPERTY AND FIXTURES OF TENANT.  All personal property and 
fixtures of Tenant in the Premises shall be kept at the sole risk of Tenant, and Landlord shall not be 
liable for any damage thereto or to Premises or to Tenant for interruption of business or otherwise.  
Tenant hereby waives all causes or rights of recovery against Landlord, its agents, employees, invitees 
and tenants for any loss to such personal property and fixtures on the Premises or to consequential loss 
arising therefrom caused by fire or other casualty,  whether negligently caused or not. 
 
 
22
 
Page 3 of 11 
THE FIS COMPANY Lease July ‘20 
 
 
 
 
 
Tenant Initials________  
   
9.    EQUIPMENT AND IMPROVEMENTS. 
a. As further consideration for this Lease, it is stipulated and agreed that at the 
expiration of the term of this lease as provided in paragraph 2 herein contained or at any other 
termination of this Lease, all structures and any and all improvements of any character whatever 
installed on the leased premises shall be and become the property of the Landlord and title thereto shall 
pass and revert to Landlord at such termination, and none of the improvements now or hereafter placed 
on the leased premises shall be removed there from at any time without Landlord’s written consent. 
Landlord shall have the alternative, at its option, to require Lessee to remove any and all improvements 
and structures from the demised premises and repair any damage caused thereby, at Tenant’s expense. 
 
b. All improvements to the Premises shall be with the express prior permission of the 
Airport Manager.  All improvements to the premises shall become the property of Landlord, and Tenant 
understands that Landlord will not reimburse Tenant for the improvements. Tenant shall be responsible for 
obtaining, if necessary, any and all permits and inspections required by such improvements. 
 
c. Tenant shall not make, suffer or permit to be made, any major additions, alterations 
or improvements on the Premises without first obtaining the written consent of Landlord, which 
consent Landlord may withhold in its sole and absolute discretion.  In the event that the consent is 
given and Tenant makes any major alterations, additions or improvements, such work shall be done in 
such a manner that no mechanic’s lien, materialman’s lien or other lien of any kind shall be created 
against or imposed upon the Premises or any part thereof, and Tenant shall indemnify and save 
harmless Landlord from any and all liability and claims for damage of any kind and nature which may 
be made or accrue against Landlord on account of any such major alterations, additions or 
improvements.  At the expiration or termination of this Lease such improvements shall become the 
property of Landlord and the value thereof will not be offset against any amounts claimed by Landlord 
as owing under the terms of this Lease.  Tenant agrees to bear all costs and expenses incident to the 
occupancy and maintenance of the structure and improvements placed therein including snow 
clearance. 
 
10.   INSURANCE.  During the term hereof, Tenant, at its sole cost and expense, shall: 
a. Keep the above described property and all buildings, fixtures and equipment located 
thereon or therein insured against loss by fire, lightning and extended coverage in an amount not less 
than 80% of the building replacement value, with a loss payable clause in favor of Landlord and Tenant, 
as their interest may appear. 
 
b. Maintain in full force and effect a policy or policies of general public liability 
insurance in which Landlord is named an additional insured to the extent of the liabilities assumed by 
Tenant hereunder, covering both parties against claims for injury, death or damage to persons or 
property occurring upon, in or about the Premises, in such limits as set forth in the New Mexico Tort 
Claims Act or as may be amended.  Tenant shall provide Landlord written evidence of this insurance 
within thirty (30) days of the effective date of the Lease. 
  
11.  DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION OF PREMISES. 
a. In the event the Premises are damaged by fire or other perils or casualty all buildings 
shall be promptly repaired and rebuilt by and at the sole cost and expense of Tenant after settlement is 
23
 
Page 4 of 11 
THE FIS COMPANY Lease July ‘20 
 
 
 
 
 
Tenant Initials________  
made with the insurance carrier and payment is received, to a condition as good as the same was in 
immediately prior to such damage or destruction, using the insurance funds provided in this lease 
toward such expense and in accordance withal laws, regulations and ordinances of all governmental 
authorities having jurisdiction and during the time of said repair, reconstruction, or restoration, the rent 
herein shall not abate, except that the Tenant shall receive credit against the rent for any rental 
insurance received by Landlord; and Tenant may at its election make the rental payments that accrue 
during a period of non-occupancy, occasioned by damage or destruction of the premises, during the 
remainder of any specified term of this lease, in addition to the normal rental payments.  Landlord 
agrees to make any insurance funds received by it available for the necessary repair, reconstruction or 
restoration. 
 
b. Landlord shall not be required to repair any damage by fire or other casualty, or to 
make any repair or replacements of any leasehold improvements, fixtures, or other personal property 
of Tenant. 
 
12.   LIABILITY.  Landlord shall not be liable to Tenant or to Tenant’s employees, 
customers, visitors or any other person or entity for any death or injury or damage to person or property 
arising from any cause whatsoever which shall occur in any manner in or about the Premises in 
connection with, or arising out of Tenant’s operations and use of the Premises.  Tenant agrees to 
indemnify and save harmless Landlord from any claim for death, injury, damage or loss which may 
occur in any manner in or about the Premises, unless such death, injury, damage or loss is proximately 
and solely caused by negligent act or omission to act of Landlord’s Agents. 
 
 13.  CONDEMNATION OR GOVERNMENTAL TAKING.  In the event that the Premises 
or any portion thereof shall be condemned for public or quasi-public purpose, or shall be taken by any 
governmental authority in any manner whatsoever during the term hereof, the parties hereto agree to 
the following: 
 
a.  In the event that the Leased Premises shall be totally condemned or taken, or 
condemned or taken so as to render the remainder thereof unusable for purposes for which said 
Premises was leased, this Lease shall terminate as of the effective date of such condemnation or taking. 
 
b. In the event that a portion of the leased Premises is condemned or taken, but such 
condemnation or taking does not render the remainder thereof unusable for the purposes for which the 
Premises was leased, Tenant’s obligation under this Lease shall continue in full force and effect, but 
the amount of rent payable by Tenant shall be reduced in the proportion which the portion of the leased 
Premises condemned or taken bears to the total area of the leased Premises.  In such event, Tenant 
shall bear any necessary costs of relocating its equipment and placing the remaining Premises in proper 
and usable condition. 
 
c.  In the event of total or partial condemnation or taking of the leased Premises as 
aforesaid, all compensation awarded or paid upon a total or partial taking of the Premises shall belong 
to Landlord and  Tenant shall have no right or cause of action against Landlord; provided, however 
that Tenant shall be entitled to participate in any award to the extent that such award includes the loss, 
if any, sustained by Tenant as a result of the termination of this Lease or diminution of its leasehold 
estate and the value of any fixtures condemned or taken if such fixtures were installed by Tenant and 
24
 
Page 5 of 11 
THE FIS COMPANY Lease July ‘20 
 
 
 
 
 
Tenant Initials________  
are located upon the Premises at the time of such condemnation or taking.  Tenant reserves the right 
to proceed independently of Landlord with any claim for compensation for damages to which Tenant 
may become entitled by reason of such total or partial condemnation or taking. 
 
14.  CONDITIONS OF DEFAULT.  If at any time during the term of this Lease, Tenant shall: 
 
a. Default in the payment of any installment of rent or any other sums specifically to 
be paid by Tenant hereunder, or default in payment of aircraft landing or parking charges, including 
finance charges, late fees and penalties, as established by Resolution of the governing body of the City 
of Roswell, and such default shall not have been cured within ten (10) days after Landlord shall have 
given to Tenant written notice specifying such default; or 
 
b.  Default in the observance of any of the Tenants’s covenants, agreements or 
obligations hereunder, other than the covenants to pay rent or any other sum herein specified to be paid 
by Tenant, and such default shall not have been cured within thirty (30) days after Landlord shall have 
given to Tenant written notice specifying such default; provided, however, that if the default 
complained of shall be of such nature that he same cannot be completely remedied or cured within 
such thirty (30) day period, then such default shall not be an enforceable default against Tenant for the 
purposes of this paragraph if Tenant shall have commenced curing such default within such thirty (30) 
day period and shall proceed with reasonable diligence and in good faith to remedy the default 
complained of; or 
 
c.   Finally and without further possibility of appeal or review (1.) be adjudicated 
bankrupt or insolvent, (2.) have a receiver or trustee appointed for all or substantially all of its business 
or assets, or (3.) suffer an order to be entered approving a petition filed against Tenant seeking 
reorganization of Tenant under the Federal Bankruptcy laws or any other applicable law or statute of 
the United States or any state thereof; or  
 
d. Make an assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or file a voluntary petition in 
bankruptcy or a petition or answer seeking reorganization or arrangement under the Federal 
Bankruptcy law or other applicable law or statute of the United States or any state thereof, or shall file 
a petition to take advantage of any insolvency act or shall assent to the appointment of a receiver or 
trustee of all or a substantial part of its business and property; or  
 
e. Leave the Premises vacant or deserted for a period of sixty (60) consecutive days; or 
 
f.  Use the Premises for purposes other than those set forth in Paragraph 18 hereof, of 
fail to use the Premises for any purpose for a period of sixty (60) consecutive days and such lack of 
use shall continue for thirty (30) days after Landlord has given Tenant written notice specifying the 
default.  
 
15.  REMEDIES OF LANDLORD FOR DEFAULT.  If Tenant is in default of this Lease, 
then Landlord shall have the following remedies:   
a. Landlord may sue to collect any and all sums which may accrue to Landlord by 
virtue of the provisions of this Lease and/or for any and all damage that may accrue by virtue of the 
breach of this Lease, Tenant hereby waiving all demands for rent; 
25
 
Page 6 of 11 
THE FIS COMPANY Lease July ‘20 
 
 
 
 
 
Tenant Initials________  
 
b. Landlord may sue to restrain by injunction any violation or threatened violation of 
the covenants, conditions or provisions of this Lease; 
 
c.  Landlord may, without further notice to Tenant and without further demand for rent 
due or for the observance or performance of any of said terms, conditions or agreements, immediately 
re-enter the Leased Premises by force or otherwise, without being liable therefor, and remove all 
persons and property therefrom, using such force as may be necessary.  If this Lease shall be 
terminated before its expiration by reason of Tenant’s default, or if the Tenant shall abandon or vacate 
said Premises before the expiration of the term of this Lease, the same may be re-rented by Landlord 
(but Landlord shall not be obligated so to do) for such rent and upon such terms as Landlord may see 
fit and Tenant shall stand liable to Landlord for any deficiency.  Any costs incurred in storing Tenant’s 
property shall be considered additional damages recoverable by Landlord. 
 
d.  If Tenant shall at any time be in default in fulfilling any of the covenants of the 
Lease, Landlord may, but shall not be obligated so to do, and without notice to or demand upon Tenant, 
take or cause to be taken such action or make such payment as may be required by such covenant, at 
Tenant’s risk and expense, and all expenses, costs and liabilities of Landlord incurred under this 
paragraph shall be deemed additional rent hereunder and shall be payable to Landlord on demand 
together with interest thereon at the rate of fifteen percent (15%)  per annum.      
 
e. The remedies of Landlord hereunder shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any 
other remedy hereunder or to which Landlord may be lawfully entitled.  The failure of Landlord to 
insist upon strict performance of any of the covenants of this Lease or to exercise any option herein 
contained shall not be construed as a waiver or relinquishment for the future of such or any other 
covenant or option, nor shall the receipt by Landlord of rent with knowledge of any default by Tenant, 
or any other action of Landlord except a waiver expressed in writing signed by Landlord, be deemed a 
waiver of such default, nor shall the acceptance of any sum of rental less than the sum provided for in 
this Lease alter the rental terms hereof or absolve Tenant from its obligation to pay the full rental herein 
provided, but the acceptance of any lesser sum than the full rent herein stipulated shall be an acceptance 
of the amount paid on account of the full rent due. 
 
16.   LEGAL FEES.  If any person not a party to this Lease shall institute an action against 
Tenant in which Landlord, involuntarily and without cause, shall be made a party defendant, Tenant 
shall indemnify and save Landlord harmless from all liabilities, loss damage and expense by reason 
thereof, including reasonable attorney’s fees and all reasonable costs incurred by Landlord in such 
action.  If any action shall be brought to recover any rental under this Lease, or for or on account of 
any other default/breach of or to enforce or interpret any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this 
Lease, or for the recovery of possession of the Premises, Landlord shall be entitled to recover from 
Tenant all reasonable attorney fees and costs.  
 
17. BANKRUPTCY.  If Tenant should be adjudged bankrupt, either voluntarily or involuntarily, 
Landlord shall have the option to pursue with the Court having jurisdiction all remedies to which 
Landlord may be entitled in law or equity.  In no event shall Tenant’s interests in this Lease be deemed 
to be an asset of Tenant. 
 
26
 
Page 7 of 11 
THE FIS COMPANY Lease July ‘20 
 
 
 
 
 
Tenant Initials________  
18.  USE OF THE PREMISES. 
a. Tenant shall use the Leased Premises solely for the purpose of constructing an aircraft 
hangar for aircraft repair, together with such other related uses as shall be reasonably incidental thereto, 
and for no other purposes, and it shall not use the Leased Premises for any purpose prohibited by the laws 
of the United States and the State of New Mexico.  Tenant shall be bound by the Roswell City Code or 
as may be amended from time to time and all applicable policies and procedures of the Roswell Air 
Center (ROW), and resolutions of the governing body of the City of Roswell. 
  
b. Proper disposal of trash, fluids, parts, hazardous or contaminated waste or materials of whatsoever 
kind, type or description generated on or as a part of Tenant’s occupancy of the Premises is the sole and 
absolute responsibility of Tenant.  This responsibility extends to any materials of whatsoever kind, type 
or description generated on or as a part of Tenant’s occupancy of the Premises that might be considered 
to be, to cause, or result in Foreign Object Damage (FOD).  Tenant shall comply with all Federal, State 
and local regulations, laws and ordinances of the City of Roswell in disposal of any such materials.  
Improper disposal of trash, fluids, parts, hazardous or contaminated waste or materials of whatsoever 
kind, type or description, foreign object debris (fod) collectively, generated on or as a part of Tenant’s 
occupancy of the Premises shall be grounds for the immediate Lease termination with or without process 
of law.  Tenant represents to Landlord that it will not release any hazardous materials at the leased 
premises or contaminate the leased premises.  To the extent it is proven that hazardous materials have 
been released on the leased premises by Tenant, Tenant’s employees or representatives during the term 
of Tenant’s occupancy of the leased premises, Tenant hereby unconditionally agrees at its sole cost to 
defend , indemnify, protect and hold Landlord harmless from and against any bodily injury, death or 
property damage, including (1) environmental claims, (2) environmental expenses, including without 
limitation, the handling, investigation, treatment, storage decontamination, remediation, removal, 
transport or disposal of such hazardous materials, and (3) liabilities, losses, damages, fines, penalties, 
charges, orders, judgments, or liens caused by such release. 
 
c. Tenant shall operate its business in such a manner as to prevent the performance of any 
act or creation or maintenance of any thing which, in the opinion of Landlord, is or may become a 
nuisance or otherwise noxious or objectionable condition including, but not limited to, any act or thing 
resulting in noise, vibration, shock, smoke, dust, odor or other forms of air pollution, or other condition, 
substance or element in such amount as to affect areas surrounding or adjoining the Premises.  Landlord 
shall be the sole and reasonable judge as to whether or not any act done or thing created or maintained 
by Tenant on the Premises is or may become a nuisance or otherwise noxious or objectionable condition, 
and Tenant agrees to abide by Landlord’s decision and act in accordance with its directions with respect 
thereto. 
 
d. Landlord reserves the right to take any action it considers necessary to protect the aerial 
approaches to the ROW’s airport against obstruction, and together with the right to prevent Tenant from 
erecting or permitting to be erected any building or other structure on the Premises which, in the opinion 
incurrent restriction or master plan. 
 
19.  NONDISCRIMINATION PROVISIONS.   Tenant shall use the Premises in compliance 
with all requirements imposed by or pursuant to Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs of 
the Department of Transportation 49 CFR 21.  Landlord shall itself comply with these requirements in 
its leasing activities. 
27
 
Page 8 of 11 
THE FIS COMPANY Lease July ‘20 
 
 
 
 
 
Tenant Initials________  
 
20.  DOMINANT PROVISIONS.  The parties acknowledge that the Leased Premises are a 
part of the ROW and are therefore subject to the provisions of the Indenture between the United States 
of America and the City of Roswell, dated 24 January 1968, and filed for record in Book 248, Page 
901, Office of the County Clerk, Chaves County, New Mexico and any other agreements or 
understandings.  The provisions of the above described indenture are hereby incorporated herein by 
reference and accepted as binding by the parties hereto. 
 
21. ACCESS TO INSPECTION OF PREMISES.  Upon giving reasonable notice to Tenant, 
Landlord and the Federal Aviation Administration, their agents, or contractors may enter upon the 
Premises during Tenant’s regular business hours and have free access to all buildings and other 
improvements located thereon for the purpose of inspecting the condition thereof or exercising any 
right or power reserved to Landlord or the Federal Aviation Administration under the terms and 
provisions of this Lease. 
 
22.  ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLEASE.  Tenant shall not assign this Lease, in whole or in 
part, nor sublet all or any part of the Premises without written consent from the Landlord.  
 
23.  HOLDOVER.   In the event Tenant remains in possession of Premises after the 
expiration or termination of this Lease, Tenant shall be deemed a tenant from month to month only, at 
the rental provided for in this Lease plus an additional 5% and Tenant’s occupancy shall be governed 
in all other provisions hereof, except as to the duration of the term, by the provisions of this Lease. 
 
24.  INTERPRETATION OF LEASE AGREEMENT.  Nothing in this Lease Agreement 
shall be construed or interpreted as limiting, relinquishing or waiving of any rights of ownership 
enjoyed by Landlord in the Premises; or waiving or limiting Landlord’s authority or control over the 
management, operation or maintenance of property, except as specifically provided for in this Lease 
Agreement; or impairing governmental rights and police powers of Landlord. 
 
25.  PARAGRAPH HEADINGS.  The paragraph headings contained herein are for 
convenience and in reference and are not intended to define or limit the scope of any provision of this 
Lease. 
 
26.  NOTICES. 
a. All notices, requests or other communications to Landlord shall be given by regular 
and certified mail addressed to the following: 
 
Air Center Manager 
1 Jerry Smith Circle 
Roswell, NM 88203 
 
b. All notices, requests or other communications to Tenant shall be given by regular 
and certified mail addressed to the following: 
 
The FIS Company, Inc 
3 W Challenger 
28
 
Page 9 of 11 
THE FIS COMPANY Lease July ‘20 
 
 
 
 
 
Tenant Initials________  
Bld. 732 
Roswell, NM 88203 
 
 
 
 
27.  EFFECT.  The terms and provisions hereof shall extend to and be binding upon the 
successors and assigns of the parties hereto. 
 
28.   WAIVERS.  One or more waivers of any covenant, term or condition of this Lease shall 
not be construed as a waiver of a subsequent default or breach of the same covenant, term or condition.  
The consent or approval by either party to or of any act by the other party requiring such consent or 
approval shall not be deemed to waive or render unnecessary consent to or approval of any subsequent 
similar act. 
 
29.  GOVERNING LAW; VENUE.  This Lease and the rights and obligations of the parties 
hereunder shall be shall be governed by New Mexico law.  Any suit brought by either party regarding 
this agreement or default or breach thereof shall be filed in the courts of Chaves County New Mexico.  
 
30.  TERMINATION.  This Lease may be terminated by Tenant by giving ninety (90) days 
written notice. This lease may be terminated by Landlord by reason of default as provided for in 
paragraph 12. 
 
31. SITE SUITABLILITY. Landlord makes no warranty as to the suitability of the Premises 
for any purpose. It is Tenant’s responsibility to determine site suitability prior to proceeding with any 
construction. Further, Tenant shall indemnify and hold harmless Landlord from and against all 
allegations, claims, actions, suits, demands, damages, liabilities, obligations, losses, settlements, 
judgments, costs and expenses (including without limitation attorneys’ fees and costs) which arise out 
of, relate to or result from any act or omission of Tenant. 
 
   32. FIRST RIGHT TO RE-LEASE.  If this Lease has not been otherwise terminated, and if no 
default by Tenant exists upon the expiration of the term hereof, Landlord shall give Tenant the first 
right to re-lease the above described property, structures and improvements located hereon upon 
such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by Landlord.  
 
33.  ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND AMENDMENT.  This writing is intended by the parties 
as a final expression of their agreement and as a complete and exclusive statement of the terms thereof, 
with all negotiations, considerations, and representations between the parties having been incorporated 
herein.  No course of prior dealings between the parties shall be relevant or admissible to supplement, 
explain, or vary any of the terms of this Lease Agreement.  No representations, understandings, or 
agreements have been made or relied upon in the making of this Lease Agreement other than those 
specifically set forth herein. This Lease Agreement is the entire Agreement and may be amended only 
in writing signed by Tenant and approved by Landlords Governing Body. 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Lease Agreement is executed this ________day of _________ 2020. 
 
LANDLORD: 
29
 
Page 10 of 11 
THE FIS COMPANY Lease July ‘20 
 
 
 
 
 
Tenant Initials________  
CITY SEAL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF ROSWELL, NEW 
MEXICO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
______________________ 
Dennis J. Kintigh, Mayor 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
______________________ 
Sharon Coll, City Clerk  
 
 
TENANT:  
THE FIS COMPANY, INC                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
______________________ 
Isaac Sheets, President 
30
 
Page 11 of 11 
THE FIS COMPANY Lease July ‘20 
 
 
 
 
 
Tenant Initials________  
EXHIBIT “A”
 
EXHIBIT “A” 
Premises: 
An area of land consisting of 
19,000 square feet ± , located 
between Hangar 1532 and Hangar 
1533 at the Roswell Air Center 
 
32 West Challenger 
Hangar 
1533 
Hangar 
1532 
31
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
8.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
Public Safety
 
CONTACT: 
Mike Mathews
CHAIR: 
Jeanine Corn-Best
ACTION REQUESTED:
Resolution 20-31 - Weeds - The Resolution shall mandate the cleanup of approximately ninety-five (95) separate
properties within the City.
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by:  Bill Morris
 
At present, no more efficient means are available to enforce the requirements that property within the City limits be
kept clean and orderly.  Citation of property owners requires they be present in Roswell.  Even the citations do not
provide for the actual clean up and cannot give the City the right to file a lien for the cleanup expense.  This
procedure is cumbersome, but should result in resolution of some more severe situations.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
Adoption of the resolution will probably cause a number of people to voluntarily clean up their property.  Most of the
balance will be cleaned up by the City at a cost ranging from $30 to $500 for each property, and liens will be filed
and later foreclosed.  A few people may appeal the resolution to Council and a hearing will have to be provided to
hear their appeals.  Overall, the resolution should affect rapid cleanup of this season's weeds and other debris,
followed by an extended collection period.
LEGAL REVIEW:
The City Attorney has reviewed the current resolution.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
This item is not required to go through a committee.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Code Enforcement recommends approval of Resolution 20-31.
Attachments
ATT 1 Resolution 20-31 Weeds 
ATT 2 Resolution 20-31 Weeds Exhibit 
32
CITY OF ROSWELL 
RESOLUTION 20-31 
 
A RESOLUTION REQUIRING THE REMOVAL OF CERTAIN RUBBISH, WEEDS, 
WRECKAGE OR DEBRIS; PROVIDING THAT THE CITY SHALL HAVE A LIEN FOR THE 
COST OF REMOVAL AND DECLARING CERTAIN PROPERTY TO BE SO COVERED 
WITH RUBBISH, WEEDS, WRECKAGE OR DEBRIS AS TO CONSTITUTE A PUBLIC 
NUISANCE PREJUDICIAL TO HEALTH, SAFETY AND GENERAL WELFARE. 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Roswell, New Mexico, finds 
that the premises listed in Exhibit A attached hereto and purportedly owned of record, or 
occupied by the parties named, have accumulated rubbish, weeds, wreckage or debris so 
as to be a menace to the public health, safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of the 
community; and further, that it is in the public interest to require the removal thereof, 
according to law; 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL, 
THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF ROSWELL, NEW MEXICO, that: 
 
 
1.  The premises set forth in Exhibit A are declared to be so covered with 
rubbish, weeds, wreckage or debris as to constitute a menace to the public comfort, health, 
safety and general welfare within the purview of Article 3-18-5 NMSA 1978. 
 
 
2.  The owners, occupants or agents in charge of said premises are hereby 
ordered to remove such accumulated rubbish, weeds, wreckage or debris within ten (10) 
days of the receipt of notice by certified mail or from the date of publication of this 
resolution.  In the event such removal is not commenced or written objection filed with the 
City Clerk within ten (10) days after service of a copy of this resolution, then the City 
Manager is authorized and directed to cause such accumulated rubbish, weeds, wreckage 
or debris to be removed at the sole cost and expense of the owner, or other parties having 
an interest in the properties, and further, that the reasonable cost of such removal shall be 
and become a subsisting and valid lien against such property so removed and the lot or 
parcel of land from which such removal was made and shall be foreclosed in the manner 
provided by law for the foreclosure of municipal liens. 
 
 
3.  In the event the owner or other person aggrieved shall file a protest 
within the time provided, the City Council shall thereafter fix a date for hearing.  At the 
hearing, the protestant shall be entitled to be heard in person, by agent or attorney and the 
City Council shall consider evidence whether or not its previous action shall be enforced 
or rescinded; if it shall be determined that the removal order should be enforced. 
 
 
4.  Persons aggrieved by the determination of the City Council have a right 
to appeal to a court of competent jurisdiction by giving notice of such appeal to the City 
Council within five (5) days after the day of issuance of such order or decision, together 
with a petition for court review duly filed with the Clerk of the Court within twenty (20) 
days of the date of issuance of the order or decision complained of. 
 
33
 
ADOPTED, SIGNED AND APPROVED 11th day of June 2020. 
 
 
 
CITY SEAL                                                           ________________________________ 
                                                                               Dennis J. Kintigh, Mayor                        
  
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
________________________________ 
Sharon Coll, City Clerk 
34
Resolution #20-31 
 
   
           
             
 
 
Exhibit A  
June 11, 2020      
  
 
 
 
  
           
 
Page 1 
604 BROKEN ARROW RD 
TIERRA BERRENDA 3 Block 15 Lot 5  
ESCOBAR, DANIEL 
2401 SUMMER HILL CT 
WASCO, CA 93280 
2004 N MISSISSIPPI AVE 
SUMMERSGILLS Block 2 Lot 2 
NOLTE, NANCY 
PO BOX 643  
STERLING CITY, TX 76951 
3305 FLINT AVE 
TIERRA BERRENDA 5 Block 8 Lot 6 
MARTINEZ, ARMANDINA 
3305 FLINT AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88201 
2500 N MICHIGAN AVE 
WIDE ACRES Block 2 Lot 1 
KLIMA, CARL 
2500 N MICHIGAN AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88201 
308 SUNRISE RD 
TIERRA BERRENDA 4  
Block 6 Lot 16 
KNIGHT, DONALD 
308 SUNRISE RD 
ROSWELL, NM 88201 
APPROX. 105 TWIN DIAMOND RD 
RIVERSIDE NORTH  
SUMMARY PLAT 1 Lot 2 
KROENKE, E STANLEY 
211 N STADIUM BLVD STE 207 
COLUMBIA, MO 65203  
1400 HALL DR 
LOMITAS ENCANTADAS 3 Block 40 
LOWERY, JAN 
2707 EL CAMINO REAL 
REDWOOD CITY, CA 94061 
1901 & 1903 N MONTANA AVE 
SORRENTO SUBDIVISION  
Lot 111 & Lot 110 
AGGIES, LLC 
4420 TOWER RD SW 
ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87121 
1907 N MONTANA AVE 
SORRENTO SUBDIVISION Lot 108 
AGGIES, LLC 
4420 TOWER RD SW 
ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87121 
703 N UNION AVE 
RIVERSIDE HEIGHTS Block 24 Lot 9 
DURAN, HERMILINDA J 
PO BOX 374 
GROOM, TX 79039 
1613 N MICHIGAN AVE 
LAWRENCE & HODGES Block 6 Lot 18 
ORTEGA-MIRAMONTES, MARIA V 
911 JASON ST 
CARLSBAD, NM 88220 
1704 N KENTUCKY AVE 
SIEG Lot 10 
THOMPSON, KATHARINE 
2844 MUNSON ST 
CAMARILLO, CA 93010 
700 N WASHINGTON AVE 
PARK REVISED Lot 23 
MATHISON REVOCABLE TRUST 
700 N WASHINGTON AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88201 
1601 N UNION AVE 
LAWRENCE & HODGES  
Block 4 Lot 12 
KNIGHT, HURBIE D 
12450 730N #21 
AZLE, TX 76020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35
Resolution #20-31 
 
   
           
             
 
 
Exhibit A  
June 11, 2020      
  
 
 
 
  
           
 
Page 2 
2303 N MAIN ST 
KASS PLAZA MIDTOWN ROSWELL 
SUBDIVISION  Lot 1 
KASS INVESTMENT GROUP LLC 
1017 N TURNER ST 
HOBBS, NM 88241 
1817 N MICHIGAN 
JOHNSON & ALLISON REDIV BLK 1 
VICTORIA HEIGHTS Block A Lot 21 
SEBI, INC 
PO BOX 901 
DEXTER, NM 88230 
1001 KINGS DR 
CRESCENT HEIGHTS Block 1 Lot 16 
C/O FINLEY, PATRICK 
4414 AVENIDA DEL SOL NE 
ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87110 
3211 N MAIN ST 
LINDA VISTA ESTATES Block A Lot 1 
SG NATIONAL LLC 
1185 6TH AVE FL 10 
NEW YORK, NY 10036 
311 W COUNTRY CLUB RD 
MONTOYA REEVE SUMMARY PLAT 
MONTOYA-REEVE FAMILY  
LIMITED PARTNERSHIP 
PO BOX 21473 
ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87154 
1002 CRESCENT DR 
CRESCENT HEIGHTS Block 3 Lot 1 
GRANADOS, GABRIEL J 
865 LOMA HERMOSA DR NW 
ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87105 
APPROX. 2305 N WASHINGTON AVE 
LA SIERRA UNIT 1-A Lot 23 
YE, JINFENG 
2507 VIOLET ST  
CARLSBAD, NM 88220 
APPROX. 2307 N WASHINGTON AVE 
LA SIERRA UNIT 1-A Lot 24 
YE, JINFENG 
2507 VIOLET ST  
CARLSBAD, NM 88220 
612 BROKEN ARROW DR 
TIERRA BERRENDA 3 Block 15 Lot 1 
DAVIS, JACK H 
2402 CROWN CT 
CARLSBAD, NM 8822 
800 N RICHARDSON AVE 
NORTH SPRING RIVER  Block 4 Lot 6 
LIETZ FAMILY TRUST 
21 RIVIERA BLVD 
LAKE HAVASU CITY, AZ 86403 
APPROX. 3609 N MAIN ST 
RIVERSIDE NORTH SUBDIVISION, 
SUMMARY PLAT NO. 3 Lot 1 
AMERCO REAL ESTATE COMPANY 
2727 N CENTRAL AVE  
PHOENIX, AZ 85004 
702 W 11TH ST 
STATEN SUMMARY PLAT Lot 2 
SANCHEZ, ERNEST  
217 TUMBLEWEED RD 
DEXTER, NM 88230 
709 W 11TH ST 
KEITH Block 6 Lot 5 
SALTZ DECLARATION  
OF TRUST, HEDDA P 
PO BOX 284 
TINNIE, NM 88351 
710 W 11TH ST 
RIVERSIDE HEIGHTS  
ESCAMILLA, JESUS GARZA 
5605 WHEELWRIGHT WAY 
HAYMARKET VA 20169 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36
Resolution #20-31 
 
   
           
             
 
 
Exhibit A  
June 11, 2020      
  
 
 
 
  
           
 
Page 3 
2810 CORONADO DR 
CORONADO #2 SUM  
REPLT CORR Lot 38 
GONZALEZ, MAURICIO 
1860 ALEGRE DR  
TRACY, CA 95376 
1100 E LA PALOMA LN 
TIJMOR SUBDIVISION  
Block 2 Lot 12 
FRENCH BROTHERS, INC 
PO BOX 593 
ALAMOGORDO, NM 88311 
1106 S RICHARDSON AVE 
ROSWELL HOMES REDIV  
Block 1 Lot 4 
CONTRERAS, MARTIN JL 
77 HOLLOMAN PL 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
LOTS W GAYLE AND MAIN  
REPLAT OF TRACT A,  
PLAINS PARK ESTATES  
TANNER, BILL;  
KINSEY, DONALD REED II;  
RUSSELL, ARTHUR ROBERT 
22131 NEEDLES ST 
CHATSWORTH, CA 91311 
707 S MICHIGAN AVE 
LEWIS 1ST AMND Block 1 Lot 3  
MANUEL MOLINAR JR 
408 YUCCA DR 
DEMING NM 88030 
LOTS APPROX. 1402 S RILEY 
SUNSET VILLA Block 2 Lot TRACT A* 
NM ROSWELL REALTY LLC 
930 RIDGEBROOK ROAD 
SPARKS, MD 21152 
1615 W TILDEN ST 
FAIR PARK Block 9 Lot 15  
MROS ESTATE, ALLEN 
1615 W TILDEN ST 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
1706 W JUNIPER 
RHOADES & MEYER REDIV Lot 3-4  
SWANSON, TROY W 
1706 W JUNIPER ST 
ROSWELL, NM 88203-1904 
502 S OHIO AVE 
PAULY Block 17 Lot 2 
ANGEL, CECILIA SIGALA 
 507 E 10TH ST 
NIXON, TX 78140 
418 S CEDAR AVE 
THORNE Block 3 Lot 10 
DURAN EMMANUEL 
1617 S WASHINGTON AVE 
ROWELL, NM 88203  
112 S LEA AVE 
WEST SIDE Block 17 Lot 7  
TEEL, JAMES CALVIN JR;  
TEEL, MARIA C 
110 S LEA AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
3000 VASSAR DR 
MESA VERDE REDIV Block 2 Lot 1 
GREENLEE, LEON W;  
GREENLEE, RAMONA M 
3000 VASSAR DR 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
APPROX. 1924 CLOVER LN 
THE MEADOWS AMEND Lot 9  
CRA PROPERTIES LLC 
2850 QUAY RD 64 
TUCUMCARI, NM 88401 
106 S KANSAS AVE 
THORNE Block 5 Lot 13 S 55'  
GAMBOA, ANDREW 
PO BOX 2911 
ROSWELL, NM 88202-2911 
 
 
 
 
37
 
Resolution #20-31 
 
   
           
             
 
 
Exhibit A  
June 11, 2020      
  
 
 
 
  
           
 
Page 4 
301 W TILDEN ST 
SOUTH ROSWELL Block 8 Lot 14 
AVEY, JOHN L;  
AVEY, BRENDA MARLENE 
44 2ND ST SE 
RIO RANCHO, NM 87124 
300 W MATHEWS 
SOUTH ROSWELL  
Block 56 Lot 13 
COTTON, ISAAC 
PO BOX 5282 
SACRAMENTO, CA 95817-0282 
1200 S LEA AVE  
SOUTH HIGHLANDS  
REDIVISION Block 19A Lot 1 
MCCONNELL, LEE ANNA 
274 CHERING DR 
BELTON, TX 76513 
500 S LEA AVE 
ALAMEDA HEIGHTS  
Block 8 Lot 1 N 50’ 
GRAY, GREGORY MARC 
500 S LEA AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
513 W FOREST ST 
SOUTH HIGHLANDS REDIVISION  
Block 19A Lot 12 W 32' And Lot 14 
MARTINEZ, ROY LAWRENCE 
13922 TUSTIN EAST DR APT D69 
TUSTIN, CA 92780 
1200 S LEA AVE  
SOUTH HIGHLANDS  
REDIVISION Block 19A Lot 1 
MCCONNELL, LEE ANNA 
274 CHERING DR 
BELTON, TX 76513 
907 S WASHINGTON 
MISSOURI AVENUE SCHOOL  
Block 2 Lot 8 And Lot 9 N 2'  
GARY L SEAGER 
3428 BRENT RD 
LONGVIEW, TX 75604 
415 S SPRUCE AVE  
THORNE Block 5 Lot 13 S 55'  
WALTMIRE, MARK A 
PO BOX 4255 
ROSWELL, NM 88202-4255 
 
502 W McGAFFEY ST 
BECERRA, DAVID;  
BECERRA, VICTORIA CRUZ 
SOUTH HIGHLANDS REDIVISION  
Block 19A Lot 3 
PO BOX 14 
LAKE ARTHUR, NM 88253 
3000 CLIFF DR 
MESA VERDE REDIV Block 3 Lot 1 
SHIRLEY SURVIVORS TRUST,  
JANET S; JANET S SHIRLEY-TRUSTEE 
1269 WALLER ST 
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94117 
 
108 W OLIVER ST 
OLIVERS REDIV AMEND  
Block 3 Lot 6 
LUCERO, JASON 
1604 S KENTUCKY AVE  
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
1004 W 14TH ST 
HOWARD PLACE Block 3 Lot 1 
CASAREZ, TONY 
507 E MATHEWS ST 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
1209 AUBURN DR  
MESA PARK 6 Block 26 Lot 14  
CHIMERA REO 2018-NR1 LLC 
3217 S DECKER LAKE DR  
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84119 
302 W MATHEWS ST 
SOUTH ROSWELL Block 56 Lot 11 
GREEN, J B MRS; C/O LARRY LOWE 
2313 BROADWAY 
LUBBOCK, TX 79401 
 
38
 
 
Resolution #20-31 
 
   
           
             
 
 
Exhibit A  
June 11, 2020      
  
 
 
 
  
           
 
Page 5 
311 W SUMMIT ST 
SOUTH ROSWELL AMND  
S2 BLK 56 Block 56 Lot 2 And Lot 4  
AVERITT, JOANNE BALES & BALES, 
DOUGLAS KIRK; BALES, RISE RENEE & 
BOYD, JANICE MARIE BALES ET AL 
400 N MOUNT RUSHMORE DR  
CEDAR PARK, TX 78613 
APPROX. 309 W SUMMIT ST 
SOUTH ROSWELL AMND S2 BLK 56  
Block 56 Lot 6 And Lot 8, PROBATE 
UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI-COLUMBIA; 
MARINE MILITARY ACADEMY & NEW 
MEXICO MILITARY INST 
1105 CARRIE FRANCKE DRIVE 
COLUMBIA, MO 65211 
LOTS APPROX. 301-309 W MATHEWS ST 
SOUTH ROSWELL Block 41 Lot 8 And Lot 
10 And Lot 12 And Lot 14  
AVERITT, JOANNE BALES & BALES, 
DOUGLAS KIRK; BALES,RISE RENEE & 
BOYD, JANICE MARIE BALES ET AL 
C/O CHARLOTTE GRAVES  
400 N MOUNT RUSHMORE DR 
CEDAR PARK, TX 78613 
APPROX. 311 W MATHEWS ST 
SOUTH ROSWELL Block 41 Lot 4 And Lot 6 
AVERITT, JOANNE BALES &  
BALES, DOUGLAS KIRK;  
BALES, RISE RENEE & BOYD, JANICE 
MARIE BALES ET AL 
C/O CHARLOTTE GRAVES  
400 N MOUNT RUSHMORE DR  
CEDAR PARK, TX 78613 
1400 E TILDEN ST 
SUNSHINE ACRES  
Block 2 Lot 11  
ORNELAS, JOHN M SR 
1400 E TILDEN ST 
ROSWELL, NM 88203                                  
1315 E TILDEN ST 
WALLACE AMEND  
Block 1 Lot 15 And Lot 16 
NAJERA, GILBERTO 
712 97TH ST NW 
ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87121                           
320 E LEWIS ST 
KEITHS SOUTHSIDE Block 7 Lot 12 
MARTINEZ-GARCIA, AGUSTIN; 
SANCHEZ-SANCHEZ, CAROLINA 
3428 S 16TH ST 
MILWAUKEE, WI 53215 
301 E KEITH ST 
KEITHS SOUTHSIDE 2  
Block 1 Lot 29  
FLORES, ANDRES 
200 HONOLULU RD 
DEXTER, NM 88230  
217 E BONNEY ST 
SOUTH MANOR  
Block 4 Lot 16 
COLE, ALICIA 
4631 E PECAN RD 
PHOENIX, AZ 85040 
1200 E WALNUT ST 
DOC COVINGTON Block 3 Lot 10  
VALIANT KNIGHT CONSULTANTS LLC 
68025 VISTA CHINO 
CATHEDRAL CITY, CA 92234 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39
Resolution #20-31 
 
   
           
             
 
 
Exhibit A  
June 11, 2020      
  
 
 
 
  
           
 
Page 6 
1400 S MULBERRY AVE  
1402 S MULBERRY AVE 
JOHNSON & ALLISON S2 BLK 2 Lots 5-6-
7-8 FRUITLAND Block 6 Lot 1 And Lot 2 
VASQUEZ, DEBORAH SUE 
1501 W 6TH ST 
TULAROSA, NM 88352                                
1618 S MULBERRY AVE 
DENNEY Lot 9 And Lot 10 
GROVES, AL 
PO BOX 468 
CEDAR CREST, NM                                      
1623 S MULBERRY AVE 
MAYES Block 7 Lot 13 And Lot 14 
BASINGER ESTATE, ROBERT S 
8496 STATE HIGHWAY 20 
EUCHA, OK 74342                       
1613 S MULBERRY AVE 
MAYES Block 7 Lot 18 
LOONEY, JUDY 
1613 S MULBERRY AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88203                                  
1403 S MULBERRY AVE 
1401 S MULBERRY AVE 
JOHNSON & ALLISON S2 BLK 2 Lots 5-6-
7-8 FRUITLAND Block 7 Lot 23 
GONZALEZ-LARREA, HERLANDO 
SUNRISE WEST DR SW 
ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87121      
1522 S POPLAR AVE 
BUD TAYLOR  
Block 0 Lot 3 And Lot 12 
MONTERO, OSCAR J 
402 S LINCOLN AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88203  
1613 S POPLAR AVE 
DENNEY Block 0 Lot 16 Thru Lot 19 
GRANGER, LA KYEEMO Z;  
GRANGER, MISSY 
1508 JEWEL ST 
CARLSBAD, NM 88220 
523 E 3RD ST 
LEA Lot 70 S 107.4' E 77.67'  
LEE, JOHN E; LEE, JULIA B  
C/O BONITA BRAASCH 
704 PARKLAND CIR SE 
ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87108                        
93 LIGHTHALL PL 
PECOS VALLEY VILLAGE  
Block 21 Lot 3 
MC KELVEY, ROBERT W 
113 BUSHY TAIL RD 
ALTO, NM 88312                                         
1100 W COLLEGE BLVD 
S 32 T 10S R 24E NW4 W 50' E 1713.58' S 
179' N 209' EXC S 14.26' E 48.3' 
LONG, GRACE 
1100 W COLLEGE BLVD 
ROSWELL, NM 88201 
410 E ALBUQUERQUE ST 
SOUTH ROSWELL Block 31 Lot 11 
CALZADA, VERONICA R 
1230 LINCOLN ST 
PO BOX 1824 
ANTHONY, NM 88021 
412 E ALBUQUERQUE ST 
SOUTH ROSWELL Block 31 Lot 13 
LA RIVA, ANTONIO A 
PO BOX 11503 
ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87192-1503 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40
Resolution #20-31 
 
   
           
             
 
 
Exhibit A  
June 11, 2020      
  
 
 
 
  
           
 
Page 7 
204 W ALBUQUERQUE ST 
204 W ALBUQUERQUE ST #1/2 
SOUTH ROSWELL Block 26 Lot 9 Less 
E6.3’ S76’ & Lot 11 W2’ N64’ 
STAFFORD, DONNY;  
NORSWORTHY, DEBORAH 
613 GEORGIA RD 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
1006 W 1ST ST 
WRIGHTS Block 6 Lot 13 E  
50’ N 40’ & Lot 14 E 50’ 
FRANCO, MARY ELLEN 
607 HICKORY ST 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
607 W WALNUT ST 
WEST SIDE Block 14 Lot 6  
S 35' W 50' & Lot 7 W 50' 
LOMELI, HERIBERTO & KARINA I. 
1005 N AVENUE C 
DENVER CITY, TX 79323 
409 S SYCAMORE AVE 
WEST VIEW AMEND  
Block 2 Lot 16 
LENTE, FRIEDA 
409 S SYCAMORE AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88203-1561 
206 W 8TH ST 
206 W 8TH ST #1/2 
CHAMBERS REDIV Lot 4 
BATES, BOBBY 
710 GARDEN PL 
ROSWELL, NM 88201 
600 N DELAWARE AVE 
RIVERSIDE HEIGHTS REDIV  
LOT 4 BLK 28 Lot 4 
GOODMAN, SUSAN & EDWARD DEAN 
600 N DELAWARE AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88201 
1104 W 8TH ST 
RIVERSIDE HEIGHTS  
AMEND Block 22 Lot 3 
GUTIERREZ, RUTH FLORES YOUNG 
PO BOX 3423 
ROSWELL, NM 88202-3423 
704 W 9TH ST 
RIVERSIDE HEIGHTS  
AMEND Block 7 Lot 5 
JURNEY, JEANETTE H;  
C/O RACHEL HERRERA 
704 W 9TH ST 
ROSWELL, NM 88201 
707 W 9TH ST 
RIVERSIDE HEIGHTS  
AMEND Block 6 Lot 9 
AGUILAR, JOYCE 
707 W 9TH ST 
ROSWELL, NM 88201 
911 N MICHIGAN AVE 
RIVERSIDE HEIGHTS  
AMEND Block 6 Lot 6 
GREEN, JO ANN 
911 N MICHIGAN AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88201 
801 W 11TH ST 
S 32 T 10S R 24E  
SE4NW4 W 50' E 507' N 163' 
DURAN, ANTONIO J 
205 W BUENA VISTA ST 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
1107 N UNION AVE 
S 32 T 10S R 24E NE4NW4  
E 150' W 250' N 40' S 250 
HELLUMS, JARED D 
11 WINDLEDGE PL 
SPRING, TX 77381 
 
 
 
 
 
41
Resolution #20-31 
 
   
           
             
 
 
Exhibit A  
June 11, 2020      
  
 
 
 
  
           
 
Page 8 
1114 N KANSAS AVE 
S 32 T 10S R 24E NE4NW4  
N 95' S 152' E 150' W 400' 
KILBURN, WILLIAM G;  
KILBURN, NEDRA E 
1114 N KANSAS AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88201 
709 W 12TH ST 
KEITH AMEND BLKS 4-5  
TR A B C Block 4 Lot 2 
MORGAN, NORMA DEAN NORRIS 
C/O RON MORGAN 
PO BOX 53 
CANYON CITY, OR 97820 
1511 JACKSON AVE 
FRUITLAND Block 4 Lot 1 
DAVIS ESTATE, DOROTHY 
C/O LIZA GONZALES 
1414 S GARDEN AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
1515 S JACKSON AVE 
FRUITLAND Block 4 Lot 1*  
S 50' N 396' E 130' W 168' 
ANCHONDO, RAMON A JR 
1608 S CAHOON AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
1203 N MICHIGAN AVE 
S 32 T 10S R 24E NE4NW4  
W 182.2' E 408' N 50' S 370' 
VALENCIA, VIRGINIA 
709 POPLAR ST 
FARMINGTON, NM 87401 
 
  
42
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
9.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
Public Safety
 
CONTACT: 
Mike Mathews
CHAIR: 
Jeanine Corn-Best
ACTION REQUESTED:
Resolution 20-32 - Condemnations - The Resolution shall require the removal or demolition of fifteen (15)
dilapidated structures.
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by:  Bill Morris
 
These structures constitute a public nuisance harmful to the public health, safety and general welfare.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
Resolution and notice will be served to owners requiring action within fifteen (15) days.  Demolition by the City will
proceed if no action is taken and a lien will be placed on the property for cost ranging from $3,000 to $30,000 for
each property for removal.
LEGAL REVIEW:
The City Attorney has reviewed the current resolution.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
The Public Safety Committee recommended (4-0) approval at their meeting on May 19, 2020.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider approval of Resolution 20-32.
Attachments
ATT 1 Resolution 20-32 Condemnations 
ATT 2 Resolution 20-32 Condemnations Exhibit 
43
CITY OF ROSWELL 
RESOLUTION 20-32 
 
A RESOLUTION REQUIRING THE REMOVAL AND/OR DEMOLITION OF CERTAIN 
DAMAGED AND DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES OR PREMISES; PROVIDING 
THAT THE CITY SHALL HAVE A LIEN FOR THE COST OF REMOVAL; PRESCRIBING 
THE PROCEDURE INCIDENT TO SUCH REMOVAL AND/OR DEMOLITION AND 
DECLARING CERTAIN PROPERTY TO BE IN SUCH STATE OF DISREPAIR, DAMAGE 
AND DILAPIDATION AS TO CONSTITUTE A DANGEROUS BUILDING AND A PUBLIC 
NUISANCE PREJUDICIAL TO THE PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY AND GENERAL 
WELFARE. 
 
 
WHEREAS, it is the opinion of the City Council of the City of Roswell, 
New Mexico, that those certain buildings or structures upon the premises located as 
follows and purportedly owned of record, or occupied by the parties hereinafter named, 
are and have become in such state of disrepair, damage and dilapidation as to be a menace 
to the public health, safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of the community; and 
further, that it is in the public interest to require the removal thereof, according to law, by 
reason of the condition or conditions set forth in Exhibit "A". 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL, 
THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF ROSWELL, NEW MEXICO: 
 
 
1.  That the buildings or structures set forth in Exhibit "A" are declared to 
be in such state of disrepair, damage and dilapidation as to constitute a dangerous building 
within the purview of Roswell Municipal code section 16-12, as well as being a public 
nuisance prejudicial to the public health, safety and general welfare.  That such dangerous 
buildings or structures set forth, if any, cannot reasonably be repaired so that they will no 
longer exist in violation of the terms of the ordinance. 
 
 
2.  The owners, occupants, if any, or agent in charge of said premises be, 
and they hereby are ordered and required to remove such dangerous buildings, or 
structures within a reasonable time thereafter not to exceed fifteen (15) days from the 
receipt of notice by certified mail or from date of publication of this resolution as 
hereinafter provided, and as the case may be.  In the event such removal be not 
commenced by such owner, occupant or agent, or written objection thereto be filed with 
the City Clerk within ten (10) days after service of a copy of this resolution by certified 
mail or by publication, requesting a hearing, then and in such event, the City Manager is 
hereby authorized and directed to cause such dangerous buildings or structures to be 
removed at the sole cost and expense of the owner, owners or other parties having an 
interest in said properties, and further, that the reasonable cost of such removal shall be 
and become a subsisting and valid lien against such property so removed and the lot or 
parcel or land from which such removal was made and shall be foreclosed in the manner 
provided by law for the foreclosure of municipal liens.  Alternatively, the City Manager 
may act pursuant to Article 3-18-5 (G) (NMSA, 1978), and cause the dangerous buildings 
or structures to be removed and give title to them or their components to the removing 
person or persons. 
44
 
 
3.  In the event the owner or other interested party aggrieved shall file his 
protest within the time herein provided, requesting a hearing, on the matter, the City 
Council shall fix a date for hearing, at which time said Protestants shall be entitled to be 
heard in person, by agent or attorney, and the City Council shall consider evidence 
whether or not its previous action should be enforced or rescinded.  If it shall be 
determined that the removal order should be enforced, and the owner(s) shall fail or 
neglect to comply with said decision of the City Council, they shall have a right of appeal 
to a court of competent jurisdiction by giving notice of such appeal to the City Council 
within the (10) days after the date of the City Council decision, together with his petition 
for court review duly filed with the Clerk of the Court within thirty (30) days of the date  
of the decision complained of.  
 
 
4.  Upon the adoption of this resolution, it shall be the duty of the City 
Building Inspector to notify the owner, occupant or agent in charge of such building or 
structure of the adoption of this resolution by serving a copy thereof upon him by certified 
mail, return receipt requested; and in the event such owner, occupant or agent cannot be 
found or served within said City as herein above provided, such notice may be served by 
posting a copy of said resolution upon the premises complained of, followed by legal 
publication of said resolution one time in a newspaper of general circulation within the 
city. 
 
ADOPTED, SIGNED AND APPROVED 11th day of June 2020. 
 
 
 
CITY SEAL                                                           ________________________________ 
                                                                               Dennis J. Kintigh, Mayor                        
  
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
________________________________ 
Sharon Coll, City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
45
Resolution #20-32 
 
 
                         
 
        
        Exhibit A  
June 11, 2020   
 
  
 
 
 
                                Page 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Location 
Condition 
Name 
803 CIMARRON PL 
WESTERN MEADOWS 1 
Block 4 Lot 4 
Dilapidated/ 
Deterioration 
Open To Public,  
Inadequate Maintenance 
STUBBLEFIELD, RAY DEAN; 
STUBBLEFIELD, CHRISTINA 
803 CIMARRON PL  
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
602 W GAYLE ST 
SOUTH PLAINS PARK 
Block 3 Lot 49 
Dilapidated/ 
Deterioration 
Open To Public,  
Inadequate Maintenance 
NASRALLAH, AMANDA 
21 GRANITE CIRCLE 
ROSWELL, NM 88201 
519 S EVERGREEN AVE 
WILL JOHNSON HEIGHTS 
2 Block 2 Lot 10 Quarter NE  
Dilapidated/ 
Deterioration 
Open To Public,  
Inadequate Maintenance 
BERRONES, JOSE E 
PO BOX 1652  
ROSWELL, NM 88202 
508 HICKORY ST 
DALE BELLAMAH UNIT 1 
Block 5 Lot 14 
Dilapidated/ 
Deterioration 
Open To Public,  
Inadequate Maintenance 
BOYCE, R T; BOYCE, JO R 
508 HICKORY ST 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
411 S KENTUCKY AVE  
311 W HENDRICKS ST 
SOUTH ROSWELL 
AMEND Blk 9  
Lot S 50’ W165’  
(REAR STRUCTURE) 
Dilapidated/ 
Deterioration 
Open To Public,  
Inadequate Maintenance 
DITECH FINANCIAL LLC 
C/O NEW PENN FINANCIAL 
LLC DBA SHELLPOINT 
MORTGAGE SERVICING 
55 BEATTIE PL STE 500 
GREENVILLE, SC 29601 
418 S CEDAR AVE 
THORNE Block 3 Lot 10 
Dilapidated/ 
Deterioration 
Open To Public,  
Inadequate Maintenance 
DURAN, EMMANUEL P  
1617 S WASHINGTON AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88203-3768 
1615 W TILDEN ST 
FAIR PARK Block 9 Lot 15 
Dilapidated/ 
Deterioration 
Open To Public,  
Inadequate Maintenance 
MROS ESTATE, ALLEN 
1615 W TILDEN ST 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
1511 STANTON AVE 
FRUITLAND Block 4 Lot 2 
Dilapidated/ 
Deterioration 
Open To Public,  
Inadequate Maintenance 
MONTOYA, PRIMITIVO 
1 FOREST PL 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
1419 STANTON AVE 
SOUTH HIGHLANDS 
REDIVISION Block 29A  
Lot 11 AND Lot 12 
Dilapidated/ 
Deterioration 
Open To Public,  
Inadequate Maintenance 
GAMEZ, MARTIN;  
GAMEZ, JENNIFER 
1100 E BEECH ST 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
46
Resolution #20-32 
 
 
                          
        
        
         Exhibit A  
June 11, 2020    
  
 
 
 
                                 
         Page 2 
 
 
Location 
Condition 
Name 
916 S VIRGINIA AVE 
918 S VIRGINIA AVE 
SOUTH ROSWELL Block 
53 Lot E 100' S 140' S2 
Dilapidated/ 
Deterioration 
Open To Public,  
Inadequate Maintenance 
COMPUZANO, HECTOR 
MANUEL SANCHEZ 
6201 W 2ND ST 
ROSWELL, NM 88201 
1014 S MULBERRY AVE 
JOHNSON LOT 2 BLK 1 
FRUITLAND Lot 17 
Dilapidated/ 
Deterioration 
Open To Public,  
Inadequate Maintenance 
ROMERO, VINCENT A; 
ROMERO, MISTY L 
1014 S MULBERRY AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
901 E SUMMIT ST 
BARNETTS  
Block 14 Lot 9 W 50  
AND Lot 10 W 50’ 
Dilapidated/ 
Deterioration 
Open To Public,  
Inadequate Maintenance 
RUBEN MORONES 
909 S VIRGINIA AVE 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
1201 E ALAMEDA ST 
DOC COVINGTON  
Block 3 Lot 11 
Dilapidated/ 
Deterioration 
Open To Public,  
Inadequate Maintenance 
ALVIDREZ, JESUS;  
MINJAREZ, ANA MARIA 
1201 E ALAMEDA ST 
ROSWELL, NM 88203 
 
216 E POE 
KEITHS SOUTHSIDE 2 
Block 1 Lot 9 
Dilapidated/ 
Deterioration 
Open To Public,  
Inadequate Maintenance 
BROWN, HERBERT 
4500 BLUE STEM APT 15103 
PROSPER, TX 75078 
711 N RICHARDSON 
ORIGINAL ROSWELL 
Block 7 Lot 13 
Dilapidated/ 
Deterioration 
Open To Public,  
Inadequate Maintenance 
SENTER, SHERRY 
711 N RICHARDSON 
ROSWELL, NM 88201 
47
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
10.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
Legal
 
CONTACT: 
Parker Patterson
CHAIR: 
Judy Stubbs
ACTION REQUESTED:
Resolution 20-33 - Consider approval of Resolution 20-33, authorizing the Mayor to accept funding assistance from
the Federal Aviation Administration on behalf of the City of Roswell.
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by: Scott Stark/Mark Bleth
 
The City of Roswell Has made an application to the FAA for grant of federal funds for project development at the
ROW, approved projects for airport development at the ROW and it is the intent of the governing body to accept the
grant offer made by the FAA. A resolution like this is presented to the governing body annually.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
There are no expenditures associated with this Resolution. This resolution is necessary in order for the ROW to
apply for and receive FAA grant funds.
LEGAL REVIEW:
The Legal Department has reviewed the proposed Resolution.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
The Legal Committee recommended (3-0) approval of Resolution 20-33 at their meeting on Thursday, May 28,
2020.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider approval of Resolution 20-33, authorizing the Mayor to accept funding assistance from the Federal
Aviation Administration on behalf of the City of Roswell.
Attachments
ATT 1 Resolution 20-33 Mayor 
48
RESOLUTION 20-33 
A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO ACCEPT FUNDING ASSISTANCE 
FROM THE FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION ON BEHALF OF THE CITY OF 
ROSWELL 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Roswell has made an application to the Federal Aviation Administration 
(FAA) for grant of federal funds for project development at the Roswell Air Center (ROW), and 
WHEREAS, the Federal Aviation Administration has approved projects for airport 
development at ROW and it is the intent of the governing body to accept the grant offer made 
by the Federal Aviation Administration, and 
WHEREAS, Mayor Dennis J. Kintigh is the Chief Local Elected Official of the City of Roswell. 
NOW, THEREFORE be it resolved by the governing body, the City Council of Roswell, New 
Mexico: 
That the Mayor be and is hereby authorized to accept any grant of federal funds from the 
Federal Aviation Administration for airport development on behalf of the City of Roswell and to 
perform any and all such acts, matters, and manner of things as shall be and become necessary 
and proper to effectuate the purpose herein. 
ADOPTED, SIGNED AND APPROVED this 11th day of June 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dennis J. Kintigh, Mayor 
 
 
City Seal 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
___________________________ 
Sharon Coll, City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
49
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
11.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
Legal
 
CONTACT: 
Parker Patterson
CHAIR: 
Judy Stubbs
ACTION REQUESTED:
Resolution 20-34 - Consider approval of Resolution 20-34, authorizing the City Manager to apply for, accept and
execute Grant Agreements for funding assistance from the state of New Mexico Aviation Division on behalf of the
City of Roswell for project development at the Roswell Air Center.
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by: Scott Stark/Mark Bleth
 
The City of Roswell has made an application to the State of NM for the grant of state funds for project development
at the ROW. The State of NM has approved projects for airport development at the ROW and is the intent of the
governing body to accept the grant offers made by the State of NM through its Aviation Division. A resolution like
this is presented to the governing body annually.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
There are no expenditures associated with this Resolution. This resolution is necessary in order for the ROW to
apply for and receive State grant funds.
LEGAL REVIEW:
The Legal Department has reviewed the proposed Resolution.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
The Legal Committee recommended (3-0) approval of Resolution 20-34 at their meeting on Thursday, May 28,
2020.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider approval Resolution 20-34, authorizing the City Manager to apply for, accept and execute Grant
Agreements for funding assistance from the State of New Mexico Aviation Division on behalf of the City of Roswell
for project development at the Roswell Air Center.
Attachments
ATT 1 Resolution 20-34 City Manager 
50
RESOLUTION 20-34 
A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE CITY MANAGER TO APPLY FOR, ACCEPT AND 
EXECUTE GRANT AGREEMENTS FOR FUNDING ASSISTANCE FROM THE STATE OF 
NEW MEXICO AVIATION DIVISION ON BEHALF OF THE CITY OF ROSWELL FOR 
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT AT THE ROSWELL AIR CENTER. 
WHEREAS, the City of Roswell has made an application to the State of New Mexico for the 
grant of state funds for project development at the Roswell Air Center (ROW), and 
WHEREAS, the State of New Mexico has approved projects for airport development at ROW 
and it is the intent of the governing body to accept the grant offers made by the State of New 
Mexico through its Aviation Division, and 
NOW, THEREFORE be it resolved by the governing body of the City Council of Roswell, New 
Mexico: 
That the City Manager is hereby authorized, on behalf of the City of Roswell, to apply for, 
accept and execute all grant agreements for state funds from the State of New Mexico for 
airport development and maintenance, and to perform any and all such other acts as shall be 
necessary and proper to effectuate said grant agreements. 
ADOPTED, SIGNED AND APPROVED this 11th day of June 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dennis J. Kintigh, Mayor 
 
City Seal 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
_________________________ 
Sharon Coll, City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
12.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
N/A
 
CONTACT: 
Sharon Coll
CHAIR: 
N/A
ACTION REQUESTED:
Consider approval of the minutes from the May 14, 2020, regular City Council meeting.
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by:  City Council
Consider approval of the minutes from the May 14, 2020, regular City Council meeting.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
There are no financial costs.
LEGAL REVIEW:
The City Council draft minutes are reviewed by the Governing Body in compliance with the Open Meetings Act.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
There is no board or committee action.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider approval of the minutes from the May 14, 2020, regular City Council meeting.
Attachments
ATT 1 CC Draft minutes 5.14.2020 
52
 
Regular Meeting of the Roswell City Council 
Held in Meeting Room A – Roswell Convention and Civic Center 
Thursday, May 14, 2020, at 6:00 p.m. 
 
The meeting convened with Mayor Kintigh presiding; Councilors Moore, Stubbs, Best, 
Peterson, Oropesa, Perry, Kennard, Foster and Roebuck being present; Councilor 
Sanchez being absent. Councilor Kennard led in the Pledge of Allegiance and Councilor 
Roebuck led in prayer.  
 
Notice of this meeting was given to the public in compliance with Sections 10-15-1 
through 10-15-4 NMSA 1978 and Resolution 19-37. 
 
Councilor Stubbs moved to approve the agenda for the Regular Roswell City Council 
Meeting for Thursday May 14, 2020 to include Minutes from the April 9, 2020 Council 
meeting and the April 27, 2020 Special Council meeting as well as 2 Awards, 1 RFP, the 
NMDOT Funding Sharing Request, the Library Strategic Plan, 2 Roswell Air Center 
leases and 3 Resolutions; and to remove Item 22 Lodgers’ Tax Update and refer it back 
to the Legal Committee for some additional considerations. Councilor Peterson was the 
second. A voice vote was 9-0, and the motion passed with Councilor Sanchez being 
absent.  
 
Mayor Kintigh’s announcements/reports 
Mr. Neeb discussed a City Council Workshop for May 26, 2020. Mayor Kintigh asked that 
everyone please silence their cell phones.   
 
NON-ACTION ITEMS 
Presentation – COVID-19 Response Update. Mr. Neeb presented a response update on 
COVID-19. He discussed budget goals, voluntary 
service severance packages, 
reopening services and budget meetings.  
 
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION ON AGENDA ITEMS 
Participants acknowledged on each item.  
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS 
Proposed Ordinance 20-04 – Hold a public hearing and vote on Proposed Ordinance 20-
04 relating to Industrial Wastewater Regulation updates. Councilor Roebuck moved to 
approve a public hearing and vote on Proposed Ordinance 20-04 relating to Industrial 
Wastewater Regulation updates. Councilor Perry was the second. Mr. Patterson 
discussed the proposed ordinance. The City maintains its own water and sewer system. 
Pursuant to statutory authority, it regulates potential pollutants that may be introduced 
into the system. The City has not undertaken a major revision of the Ordinance regulating 
those pollutants in many years. The current updates incorporate changes recommended 
by the EPA in its model ordinance. The biggest changes include more specificity in the 
types of reporting required and more mechanisms for ensuring compliance. 
 
IN FAVOR: None 
53
 
OPPOSED: None 
 
Councilor Stubbs moved to amend Proposed Ordinance 20-04 with the following five (5) 
changes in the clean version: 
Page 9 Line 8 - add "and" after first Whereas  
Page 26 Line 14 - strike "the following may contain" 
Page 30 Line 34 - replace "[Superintendent]" including the square brackets with "director" 
Page 33 Line 12 - strike square brackets around "the City" 
Page 38 Line 2 - add a zero to "1,00" making it $1,000 
 
Councilor Perry was the second. A voice vote was 9-0, and the motion passed with 
Councilor Sanchez being absent. A roll call vote to approve Proposed Ordinance 20-04 
as amended was as follows: Angela Moore-yes, Judy Stubbs-yes, Jeanine Best-yes, 
George Peterson-yes, Juan Oropesa-yes, Jason Perry-yes,  Margaret Kennard-yes, 
Barry Foster-yes, Jacob Roebuck-yes, and the motion passed 9-0, with Councilor 
Sanchez being absent. 
 
CONSENT ITEMS 
Bids, RFP’s and Agreements 
Award contract for Carpenter Park Project – Award of Carpenter Park Splash Pad Project 
to Waide Construction Company in the amount of $314,906.74 and an additional 10% for 
contingency. Balance of $103,602.59 will be used for the planning, design, construct, 
purchase, furnish, equip and install improvements to Carpenter Park. Waide Construction 
Company is recommended by Facilities for construction services for the Carpenter Park 
Splash Pad Project. The award amount will be $314,906.74 utilizing the Cooperative 
Educational Services (CES) contract  # 19-01B-C208-ALL. The project will be paid using 
the 2019 Legislative Appropriation No. 19- D2949. The CES fee of 1% ($3,963.33) is not 
covered by grant will be paid from the FY20 budget. The legislative appropriation was 
approved in the FY20 Capital Improvement Fund budget. 
 
Award Professional Services for Veterans Cemetery Project – Award of professional 
design services for Huitt-Zollars, INC for Capital Appropriations Project 19-D2950. 
Monetary amount is $42,419.45 (NMGRT 7.875% included). Huitt-Zollars, INC is 
recommended by Facilities for design services for the McBride Veterans Cemetery 
Project. The award amount will be $42,419.45. The project will be paid using the 2019 
Legislative Appropriation No. 19-D2950. Procurement under < $60,000 RFP exempt, 
according to the NM Procurement Code for Professional Services. The legislative 
appropriation was approved in the FY20 Capital Improvement Fund budget. 
 
RFP 20-007 – Approval of Scope of Services for the Airport Engineering Consultant RFP. 
Roswell Air Center requires engineering services to maintain a safe airport. The Air 
Center Engineering contract is project based and is paid with Airport Improvement 
Funding (AIP). Term: October 1, 2020 through September 30, 2021 with four 1-year 
options.  
 
54
 
Approval of the Roswell Public Library Strategic Plan for 2020 to 2023. A planning process 
created by the Harwood Institute with the American Library Association guided the 
development of this document.  The process focused on discovering the needs of the 
community and then challenged the Library to determine ways to meet the needs.  The 
Roswell Public Library staff interviewed individuals and held community meetings on July 
8, 22 and 31, 2019 to identify the following: 
• 
Aspirations for Roswell 
• 
Challenges facing Roswell 
• 
What needs to change to reach our aspirations for Roswell 
 
We also used a ranking of the American Library Association Libraries Transform Initiative 
to help us determine what library services are most desired by our community.    
Based on these comments and research in the Library field we came up with three areas 
of improvement for the Roswell Public Library.   
 
Service Goals 
• 
Building a Community of Learners 
• 
Engaging People in the Community 
• 
Providing Points of Learning 
• 
Encouraging Reading for Pleasure 
• 
Creating a Mobile Library 
• 
Support Initiatives of the City of Roswell 
 
Building Improvements 
• 
Maintain a Safe Learning Environment 
• 
Address Major and Minor Building Improvements 
 
Management of the Roswell Public Library 
• 
Implement the New Financial System 
• 
Create a Long Term Plan for Funding Library Programs 
• 
Review and Update Roswell Public Library Board Manual 
• 
Update Job Descriptions 
• 
Create Partnerships 
• 
Create Plan for Managing Long Overdue Fines and Fees 
• 
Conduct Market Study 
 
ROW LEASES 
Approval to authorize J & A Recycling, a New Mexico LLC, to lease an 800 sq. ft. portion 
of Building No. 100. J & A Recycling is a local plastic recycling company that will lease a 
portion of building 100 for the purpose of sorting recyclable plastics. The space they will 
be using will be in the SE corner of building 100, they will be leasing 800 sq. ft. out of the 
total of +5,700 square feet.  J & A Recycling is a new tenant. J & A Recycling will pay 
$300 monthly; $3,600annually. Term: June 1, 2020 through May 31, 2021. 
 
Approval to authorize Aersale Inc., a Florida corporation, to lease + 1 acre of vacant land 
west of building 240. Aersale is in the process of clearing ramp area of parts storage to 
55
 
make room for aircraft storage and this requires more fenced property to move parts to. 
Aersale has been customers since March 2009. Aersale Inc. will pay $250 monthly; 
$3,000 annually. Term: June 1, 2020 through May 31, 2025. 
 
Resolutions 
Resolution 20-24 – Weeds – The Resolution shall mandate the cleanup of approximately 
one hundred eight (108) separate properties within the City. At present, no more efficient 
means are available to enforce the requirements that property within the City limits be 
kept clean and orderly. Citation of property owners requires they be present in Roswell. 
Even the citations do not provide for the actual clean up and cannot give the City the right 
to file a lien for the cleanup expense. This procedure is cumbersome, but should result in 
resolution of some more severe situations. Adoption of the resolution will probably cause 
a number of people to voluntarily clean up their property. Most of the balance will be 
cleaned up by the City at a cost ranging from $30 to $500 for each property, and liens will 
be filed and later foreclosed. A few people may appeal the resolution to Council and a 
hearing will have to be provided to hear their appeals. Overall, the resolution should affect 
rapid cleanup of this season's weeds and other debris, followed by an extended collection 
period. 
 
Resolution 20-25 – Condemnations – The Resolution shall require the removal or 
demolition of six (6) dilapidated structures. These structures constitute a public nuisance 
harmful to the public health, safety and general welfare. Resolution and notice will be 
served to owners requiring action within fifteen (15) days. Demolition by the City will 
proceed if no action is taken and a lien will be placed on the property for cost ranging 
from $3,000 to $30,000 for each property for removal. 
 
Resolution 20-29 – Approval of Resolution 20-29 to amend fiscal year ending June 30, 
2020 approved budget. This is a housekeeping item. Due to DFA's new reporting system 
(LGBMS), we are required to approve a budget amendment when increasing a revenue 
and offsetting expense line item. Revenue (various funds) $22,855 and Expenses 
(various funds) $22,855 and $868,845 cash reserves (road fund) and $868,845 in 
expense  
• 
Fund 1101 (General Fund): Revenues $60,605 Expenses $60,605  
• 
Fund 2623 (Road Fund): Cash Reserves $868,845 Expenses $868,845  
• 
Fund 5100 (Aircenter): Revenues $37,750 Expenses $37,750 
 
Minutes 
Approval of the minutes from the regular City Council meeting on April 9, 2020 and the 
April 27, 2020 Special City Council meeting.  
 
NEW BUSINESS/ REGULAR ITEMS  
Resolution 20-26 – Approval of Resolution 20-26 complying with the Open Meetings Act. 
Councilor Stubbs moved to approve Resolution 20-26 complying with the Open Meetings 
Act. Councilor Peterson was the second. Mr. Patterson stated that City Council has 
annually approved a resolution to comply with the New Mexico Open Meetings Act.  The 
resolution sets the dates, times and places for the regular City Council meetings, and the 
56
 
standing City Council committees.  The resolution also provides for reasonable notice of 
regular meetings, special meetings and emergency meetings, publication of notice and 
other notice requirements, meeting agendas, telephonic participation, requirements for 
closed sessions, minutes of meetings, and contact information for disabled persons who 
want to participate at meetings. A voice vote was 9-0, and the motion passed with 
Councilor Sanchez being absent.  
 
Resolution 20-27 – Approval of Resolution 20-27 the Creation of the Keep Roswell 
Beautiful Community Board. Councilor Stubbs moved to approve Resolution 20-27 the 
Creation of the Keep Roswell Beautiful Community Board. Councilor Perry was the 
second. Mr. Patterson discussed the resolution. In order for Keep Roswell Beautiful to be 
considered an affiliate of Keep America Beautiful, a leadership board must run it. This 
board will recommend the development and improvement of programs, initiatives and 
events of Keep Roswell Beautiful. They will work alongside a designee from the city to 
host grant-funded events and programs. They will also work with city designee to 
complete all required programming and reports to maintain affiliate status with Keep 
America Beautiful. The goal of this board will be to lead programs, events and projects 
that lead to beautification, increased education that lead to a cleaner and less wasteful 
Roswell. The board itself has no cost. All events, programs and initiatives hosted by Keep 
Roswell Beautiful shall be paid through funding received from the New Mexico Clean and 
Beautiful Grant or outside sponsors. NM Clean and Beautiful Grant requires a 25% match 
on award amount.  
 
Councilor Stubbs moved to amend Resolution 20-27 as follows: 
• 
In the 2nd Whereas – delete the word “and” and in the 2nd line, add the word “and” 
after the words “to make” 
• 
Number 3 Limitations – 2nd line at end of line add “y” to the word “the” making it 
“they” and in the last line of that paragraph, delete the first word “and” 
• 
Number 4 Terms of office – 2nd line after the word persons, add “recommended 
by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council” 
• 
In 6 Appointment b, I question voting positions from the Council therefore propose 
this read “A member of the City Council appointed by the Mayor shall serve as a Board 
Liaison.” 
 
Councilor Best was the second. A voice vote was 9-0, and the motion passed with 
Councilor Sanchez being absent. A voice vote to approve Resolution 20-27 as amended 
was 9-0, and the motion passed with Councilor Sanchez being absent. 
 
Resolution 20-28 – Approval of Resolution 20-28 implementing a Business Revolving 
Loan Program. Councilor Stubbs moved to approve Resolution 20-28 implementing a 
Business Revolving Loan Program. Councilor Peterson was the second. Mr. Neeb stated 
the goal of the Roswell Opportunity for Advancement Revolving Fund is to provide a 
financial resource that will compliment sources of financial assistance in the private and 
public arena, which will result in an enhanced and more fully developed economy in the 
City. ROAR is intended to participate in conjunction with commercial and public lenders, 
in projects that present expanded employment opportunities within the City of Roswell, 
57
 
improves the economic vibrancy of any commercial business district of Roswell, or allows 
for the efficient operation of the Roswell-Chaves County Economic Development 
Corporation (RCCEDC) which meet the criteria, standards and policies set forth in this 
resolution. The City will provide seed money to the RCCEDC in the sum of $150,000.00. 
The funds provided shall be from funds approved for use in creating and maintaining 
Economic Development within the City. RCCEDC 
may request additional assistance from 
the City Council for any project that does not meet the thresholds established by the 
R.O.A.R. policy guidelines. Mike Espiritu of Roswell Chaves County Economic 
Development was present to answer questions. A roll call vote was as follows: Angela 
Moore-yes, Judy Stubbs-yes, Jeanine Best-yes, George Peterson-yes, Juan Oropesa-
yes, Jason Perry-yes, Margaret Kennard-yes, Barry Foster-yes, Jacob Roebuck-yes, and 
the motion passed 9-0, with Councilor Sanchez being absent. 
 
Resolution 20-30 – Approval of Resolution 20-30 creating a Critical Infrastructure Security 
and Response Policy on Utility Plants, Collection/Distribution systems and Airport 
infrastructure. Councilor Perry moved to approve Resolution 20-30 creating a Critical 
Infrastructure Security and Response Policy on Utility Plants, Collection/Distribution 
systems and Airport infrastructure. Councilor Best was the second. Mr. Neeb discussed 
the resolution. As we face times of trouble, it reminds us of the importance to protect our 
critical infrastructure and the need to develop robust policies to assure that the City’s 
public safety departments are prepared to respond to attacks to its systems. This 
Resolution allows for a portion of public safety expenses related to the protection of critical 
infrastructure to be accounted for as a direct expense in the enterprise funds. A voice 
vote was 6-3, and the motion passed with Councilors Moore, Peterson, and Oropesa 
voting no; Councilor Sanchez being absent.  
 
Approval of Mayor Kintigh's recommendation to the Commission on Aging as follows:  
• 
Position 1 - Jesse N. Davis  
• 
Position 2 - Helen Wakefield 
 
Councilor Stubbs moved to approve Mayor Kintigh's recommendation to the Commission 
on Aging as follows: Position 1 - Jesse N. Davis; Position 2 - Helen Wakefield. Councilor 
Best was the second. Ms. Coll discussed the positions. The membership of the 
commission shall consist of six (6) members and one member of the governing body. Up 
to six other individuals concerned with the problems of adults and elderly citizens, a 
significant number of whom will be minorities and persons retired from their respective 
careers, vocations, trades, professions or businesses. Vacancies on Boards are filled 
under Roswell City Code Sec. 2-97(b)(1): “The mayor, with the advice and the consent of 
the city council, shall appoint all board members".  
 
A voice vote to approve Jesse N. Davis was 9-0, and the motion passed with Councilor 
Sanchez being absent. 
 
A voice vote to approve Helen Wakefield was 9-0, and the motion passed with Councilor 
Sanchez being absent. 
 
58
 
Approval of Mayor Kintigh's recommendations for the Occupancy Tax Board as follows: 
• 
Position 3 (At Large) -  Bonnie Bitzer  
• 
Position 5 (Tourist Related) – Kerry Moore 
 
Councilor Stubbs moved to approve Mayor Kintigh's recommendations for the Occupancy 
Tax Board as follows: Position 3 (At Large) - Bonnie Bitzer; Position 5 (Tourist Related) 
– Kerry Moore. Councilor Best was the second. Ms. Coll discussed the positions. The 
Occupancy Tax Board has five (5) members with two (2) four-year terms. Two (2) 
members who are tourist related two (2) members who are lodging related, and one (1) 
member at large.  At this time, Position 3 (At Large) and Position 5 (Tourist Related) terms 
have expired.  
 
A voice vote to approve Bonnie Bitzer was 9-0 and the motion passed with Councilor 
Sanchez being absent. 
 
A voice vote to approve Kerry Moore was 8-1, and the motion passed with Councilor 
Peterson voting no; Councilor Sanchez being absent. 
 
Acceptance of the Audited Financial Statement for Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 2019. 
Councilor Perry moved to accept the Audited Financial Statement for Fiscal Year Ending 
June 30, 2019. Councilor Kennard was the second. Ms. Garcia introduced Chris Garner 
Auditor for Pattillo, Brown and Hill. He participated via Go-To Meeting and gave a 
presentation of the audited financial statement. The State of New Mexico Audit rule 
requires the final audit report and financial statement must be presented and accepted by 
the governing authority of an agency at a public meeting. A voice vote was 8-1, and the 
motion passed with Councilor Oropesa voting no; Councilor Sanchez being absent. 
 
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS 
Larry Connolly attempted go-to-meeting. 
 
CLOSED SESSION 
Closed Session – Councilor Stubbs moved to hold a closed session, pursuant to NMSA 
1978, § 10-15-1H (2), to discuss limited personnel matters relating to the impact of 
COVID-19 pursuant to NMSA 1978, § 10-15-1H (8) for the discussion of the purchase, 
acquisition or disposal of real property or water rights relating to property located at the 
Roswell Air Center. Councilor Kennard was the second. A roll call vote was as follows: 
Angela Moore-yes, Judy Stubbs-yes, Jeanine Best-yes, George Peterson-yes, Juan 
Oropesa-yes, Jason Perry-yes, Margaret Kennard-yes, Barry Foster-yes, Jacob 
Roebuck-yes, and the motion passed 9-0, with Councilor Sanchez being absent. 
 
FOR THE RECORD: Recessed at 7:57 p.m. and went into closed session at 8:00 p.m. 
 
Councilor Stubbs stated for the record Council is back in open session at 9:13 p.m.; had 
a closed session pursuant to NMSA 1978, § 10-15-1H (2), to discuss limited personnel 
matters relating to the impact of COVID-19 pursuant to NMSA 1978, § 10-15-1H (8) for 
the discussion of the purchase, acquisition or disposal of real property or water rights 
59
 
relating to property located at the Roswell Air Center. No action was taken, and no votes 
cast.  
 
CITY MANAGER REPORTS/ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Mr. Neeb discussed the annual report and stated that the April 25, 2020 retreat has been 
cancelled.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Meeting adjourned at 9:15 p.m. 
 
Approved on this 11th day of June 2020. 
 
(City Seal) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
            
       __________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DENNIS KINTIGH, MAYOR 
 
_____________________________ 
SHARON COLL, CITY CLERK 
60
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
13.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
Finance
 
CONTACT: 
Monica Garcia
CHAIR: 
Jason Perry
ACTION REQUESTED:
Resolution 20-35 - Consider approval of Resolution 20-35 adopting the new funds for the Museum & Art Center,
Spring River Zoo, and the Nancy Lopez at Spring River Golf Fund. 
BACKGROUND:
FY21 Budget has three of the enrichment services removed from the General Fund budget and included as special
revenue funds.  These services are not considered General Fund core services and have the ability to create their
own revenue stream through user fees and other paid services.
 
By establishing these services as special revenue, funds generated will remain with them and better protect the
service through economic downturns.  The City has provided additional revenue subsidies for FY21 to allow each
service time to reset its funding model.
 
The enrichment services and subsidy for FY21 Budget are:
Enrichment Service             Self-Generated         2021 Subsidy            Expenses      Ending Cash
RMAC                                    $130,542                   $570,000                   $696,095       $7,447
Spring River Zoo                     $10,223                    $510,000                   $510,994       $9,229
Golf Course                           $266,297                    $160,000                   $420,408       $5,889
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
There is no financial consideration at this time.
LEGAL REVIEW:
No legal review is required at this time.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
The Finance Committee recommended (3-1) approval at their meeting on June 4, 2020.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider approval of Resolution 20-35 adopting the new funds for the Museum & Art Center, Spring River Zoo, and
the Nancy Lopez at Spring River Golf Fund. 
Attachments
ATT 1 Resolution 20-35 New Funds 
61
RESOLUTION 20-35 
 
A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF ROSWELL, NEW MEXICO ADOPTING NEW 
SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS FOR THE MUSEUM & ART CENTER, SPRING RIVER 
ZOO AND GOLF FUND. 
 
WHEREAS, the New Mexico Department of Finance and Administration/Local 
Government Division (DFA/LGD) required local government entities to organize their 
funds into categories; General, Special Revenue, Capital Projects, Debt Service, 
Enterprise, Internal Service and Trust and Agency Funds; and 
 
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the City to establish new funds for the Museum & Art 
Center, Spring River Zoo and Nancy Lopez Golf Course at Spring River for the purpose 
of capturing revenue , expenditures and cash balance; and 
 
WHEREAS, the new funds are: Fund 2611-Roswell Museum & Art Center, Fund 
2612-Spring River Zoo and Fund 2613 Nancy Lopez Golf Course; and  
 
WHEREAS, doing so will provide the City Council, management and staff better 
information when determining if the fees are sufficient to cover personnel , operations, 
capital and debt. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, 
BE 
IT RESOLVED 
BY THE 
CITY COUNCIL 
AS THE 
GOVERNING 
BODY OF THE CITY OF ROSWELL, NEW MEXICO, that: 
 
The City of Roswell respectfully requests approval from the Department of Finance 
and Administration/Local Government Division for the new funds described herein. 
 
PASSED, ADOPTED, SIGNED and APPROVED the 11th day of June 2020. 
 
CITY SEAL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________ 
Dennis Kintigh , Mayor 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
____________________________ 
Sharon Coll, City Clerk 
 
62
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
14.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
N/A
 
CONTACT: 
Sharon Coll
CHAIR: 
N/A
ACTION REQUESTED:
Consider approval of Mayor Kintigh's recommendations for the Planning & Zoning Commission. (Stubbs/Coll) 
Position 1 - Daniel Lopez
Position 3 - Steve Henderson
Position 5 - Jessie McDaniel
Position 6 - David Storey
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by: Planning & Zoning Commission expiring terms
The board appointed by the mayor consists of seven members whose duty is to review zoning and planning
decisions, initiate planning and zoning projects, and recommend action to the city council. They receive, hear, and
make final determinations on all applications to come before them in the manner prescribed by the procedures
established.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
There is no financial impact.
LEGAL REVIEW:
There is no legal review required.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
Mayor Kintigh recommends for the Planning and Zoning Commission positions the following individuals: 
Position 1 - Daniel Lopez
Position 3 - Steve Henderson
Position 5 - Jessie McDaniel
Position 6 - David Storey
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider approval of Mayor Kintigh's recommendations for the Planning & Zoning Commission.
Position 1 - Daniel Lopez
Position 3 - Steve Henderson
Position 5 - Jessie McDaniel
Position 6 - David Storey
63
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
15.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
N/A
 
CONTACT: 
Juanita Jennings
CHAIR: 
N/A
ACTION REQUESTED:
Consider approval of Mayor Kintigh's recommendations for the Keep Roswell Beautiful Board. Two year terms.
(Stubbs/Coll) 
Position 1 - Matthew Pacheco 
Position 2 - Megan Cedarberg 
Position 3 - Mike Clarke
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by: Juanita Jennings and Thalia Pantoja 
Background- Keep Roswell Beautiful was established for grant-funded projects through the New Mexico
Clean and Beautiful Program for FY20 (current budget year). In order to maintain current funding and secure
future funding, Keep Roswell Beautiful must be a Keep America Beautiful affiliate.
To receive affiliate status, Keep Roswell Beautiful must have a leadership board in place.
Board shall consist of five members recommended by the mayor and approved by City Council. Board
members will serve two-year terms except two members will serve initial terms of one year to create
staggered terms.
In addition, a city designee will sit on the board as an ex-officio member (non-voting).
Board will recommend the development and improvement of programs, initiatives and events of Keep
Roswell Beautiful.
The goal of the board will be to establish programs, events and projects that lead to beautification and
increased education resulting in a cleaner and less-wasteful Roswell.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
The board itself has no cost. All events, programs and initiatives hosted by Keep Roswell Beautiful shall be
paid through funding received from the New Mexico Clean and Beautiful Grant or outside sponsors. NM Clean
and Beautiful Grant requires a 25% match on award amount.
LEGAL REVIEW:
No further legal review is required at this time.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
Mayor Kintigh's recommendations for the Keep Roswell Beautiful Board. (Stubbs/Coll) 
Position 1 - Matthew Pacheco 
Position 2 - Megan Cedarberg 
Position 3 - Mike Clarke
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider approval of Mayor Kintigh's recommendations for the Keep Roswell Beautiful Board. Two year terms.
Position 1 - Matthew Pacheco 
Position 2 - Megan Cedarberg 
Position 3 - Mike Clarke
64
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
16.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
Legal
 
CONTACT: 
Parker Patterson
CHAIR: 
Judy Stubbs
ACTION REQUESTED:
Consider approval of the Business Retention, Expansion, and Economic Development Services, between the City
and the Roswell-Chaves County Economic Development Corporation. (Stubbs/Jennings)
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by: Juanita Jennings
 
The Roswell-Chaves County Economic Development Corporation (EDC) works in partnership with the City of
Roswell to promote economic development by providing support for businesses to relocate, expand or launch in
Roswell and Chaves County. Pursuant to the proposed agreement, EDC would provide business retention,
recruitment and expansion services, as described in Exhibit A to the agreement and would be subject to quarterly
and annual reporting requirements set forth in Exhibit B.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
Pursuant to the contract, the City would commit to allocate $96,000 for services by EDC and make available a
further $25,000 for special projects specified and pre-approved by the City Manager. EDC will invoice the City
quarterly for services under the Scope of Work and may be reimbursed for approved special projects.
LEGAL REVIEW:
The Interim City Attorney has reviewed the proposed Agreement. Contracts and Agreements generally require
Council approval before adoption.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
The Legal Committee recommended (3-0) approval at their meeting on Thursday, May 28, 2020.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider approval of the Business Retention, Expansion, and Economic Development Services, between the City
and the Roswell-Chaves County Economic Development Corporation.
Attachments
ATT 1 EDC 
65
Roswell EDC Services Agreement 
Page 1 of 55 
 
BUSINESS RETENTION, EXPANSION, AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
SERVICES AGREEMENT 
This Economic Development Services Agreement is made and entered into this __ day of 
 
, 2020, by and between the City of Roswell, a political subdivision of the State 
of New Mexico, by and through its duly elected City of Roswell Council, hereinafter referred to 
as “City”, and the Roswell-Chaves County Economic Development Corporation, hereinafter 
referred to as “EDC”. 
WHEREAS, the EDC is willing to provide economic development services to the City, 
and 
 
WHEREAS, the EDC is the only entity in the City that can provide these services, and as 
such, is considered a sole provider, and 
 
WHEREAS, the City desires to utilize the services of the EDC. 
 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants and conditions 
contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows: 
 
1. 
SCOPE OF WORK. EDC shall provide City and the other local governments 
within Chaves County, business retention, expansion, and economic development services. A more 
detailed description of the scope of work to be performed is attached hereto as Exhibit A and 
incorporated into this Agreement. The City will evaluate EDC’s performance annually. 
2. 
TERM OF THE AGREEMENT. The term of the Agreement shall be for a period 
of one (1) year beginning July 1, 2020 and running through June 30, 2021. The Agreement may be 
renewed by the Parties for an additional three one-year terms, not to exceed a total of four (4) 
years, and renewals shall not be effective unless memorialized in writing signed by both parties. 
3. 
TERMINATION. Notwithstanding the term, either Party may terminate the 
Agreement, with or without cause, upon sixty (60) days written notice. 
4. 
COMPENSATION. 
a. The City will allocate funds each fiscal year to be used solely for business retention, 
expansion, and economic development purposes. EDC shall submit a funding request to the 
City by April l5th of each year and shall invoice the City quarterly. The request will include 
a detailed plan for economic development for the upcoming fiscal year. The EDC shall also 
comply with the reporting requirements in Paragraph 67 and Exhibit B. The City shall notify EDC 
by July 15th of each year, the amount allocated. The amount funded may change and is 
subject to City Council absolute discretion in appropriating sufficient funds. 
b. The City directs funds to the following items within the EDC Agreement in the 
following amount:  
 Business Retention, Expansion, and Economic Development at 80%  
 Technical Services (as defined below in Exhibit A) 20%  
 
66
Roswell EDC Services Agreement 
Page 2 of 55 
 
c. The City will direct in-kind services to promotion of special events. The amount of 
in-kind services provided may change and is subject to City Council absolute discretion in 
appropriating sufficient funds.  
d. The City has allocated $96,000 for the initial term of this Agreement for services as 
outlined in Exhibit A, Scope of Work. EDC shall invoice the City quarterly. The City agrees 
to pay within ten (10) days of receipt of the invoice. All invoices should be sent to the 
attention of the City of Roswell Public Affairs Department; PO Box 1838, Roswell, NM 
88202. 
e. The City may pay EDC a sum not to exceed $25,000 for special projects on a 
reimbursement basis as specified and pre-approved by the City Manager. EDC shall submit 
invoices to City of Roswell Public Affairs Department: PO Box 1838, Roswell, NM 88202. 
Reimbursement for additional special projects beyond $25,000 may be established by 
separate agreement. 
f. The City Manager, or designee, will evaluate the performance of EDC annually. 
The City Manager will make a finding as to whether EDC is in compliance with the terms 
of the Agreement. If the City Manager determines EDC is not in compliance, then EDC 
will receive no further payments until such time as the City Manager deems EDC is in 
compliance. 
g. At the end of the first year and following a successful evaluation and compliance 
with terms of the agreement, the parties agree that they will meet to consider the Scope of 
Work and a funding level mutually agreeable to the parties and representing value of 
services provided. 
5. 
GOVERNANCE. EDC agrees that an individual as designated by the City 
Manager will serve as ex-officio, non-voting member of the EDC Executive Committee of the Board 
of Directors. In the event that EDC has a vacancy in the President position, the City shall have a 
representative on the search committee. 
6. 
COOPERATION WITH OTHER ENTITIES. EDC agrees that it will work 
closely, and cooperate with the local entities, including but not limited to Roswell Hispano 
Chamber of Commerce, the Roswell Chamber of Commerce, and MainStreet Roswell, and other 
state or federal entities that can assist in accomplishing the goals of this Agreement. 
7. 
REPORTING. EDC shall make the following reports: 
a.  Quarterly and Annual Reporting. EDC will provide quarterly and annual reporting 
to the Public Affairs Director as outlined in Exhibit B. 
b. Annual Presentation to City Council. EDC shall make an annual presentation to the 
entire City Council during a City Council meeting. This report shall include: a disclosure 
of EDC financial status, EDC Profit and Loss Actuals vs Budget, operations conducted 
during the preceding year, planned future operations, any other information agreed to by 
both the EDC and the City.  
67
Roswell EDC Services Agreement 
Page 3 of 55 
 
c. Annual Strategic Plan. Within three months of the execution date of this 
Agreement, the EDC will prepare and present to the City Manager a one-year strategic plan 
establishing longer-term goals and objectives for the EDC that are in alignment with the 
City’s expectations as outlined in Exhibit A. 
8. 
CONTRACTOR STATUS. EDC and its employees and agents are independent 
contractors performing certain services for the City and are not employees of the City. EDC, its 
employees and agents will not receive leave, retirement, insurance, bonding, use of City vehicles, 
equipment, or any other benefits afforded to employees of the City as a result of this Agreement. 
9. 
NO PARTNERSHIP. This Agreement shall not constitute the formation of a 
partnership, joint venture, or employment relationship. The EDC is without authority to act as the 
agent or representative of the City and shall not purport to agree to or approve on behalf of the City 
any contract or obligation of the City. 
10. 
SUBCONTRACTING. This agreement is based upon the skill and reliability of 
EDC. EDC may not subcontract or delegate any portion of the services to be performed under this 
agreement without prior written approval of the City. 
11. 
ASSIGNMENT. EDC will not assign or transfer any interest in this Agreement or 
assign any claims for money due or to become due under this Agreement without approval of the 
City. 
12. 
CONFIDENTIALITY. To the extent permitted by law, any information given to, 
or developed by 
EDC in the performance of this Agreement will be kept confidential and will not 
be made available to any individual, organization, or other entity by EDC without prior written 
approval of the City, except as may be required for typical due diligence actions including, without 
limitation, local and state funding or incentives analysis. 
13. 
INSURANCE. EDC shall provide and maintain in full force and effect throughout 
the term of this Agreement, at .no expense to the City, the following insurance policies: 
a. A comprehensive general liability policy in the amount of One Million 
($1,000,000) Dollars with no limiting modifications. 
b. Workers’ Compensation insurance in the statutorily required amount. 
14. 
NON-DISCRIMINATION: EDC shall not discriminate on the basis of race, 
religion, national origin, sex, color, physical or mental disability, sexual preference, or marital 
status in admission or access to, or treatment or employment in, its programs and activities. 
15. 
INDEMNIFICATION AND HOLD HARMLESS. EDC agrees to accept 
responsibility for loss or damage to any person or property, to defend, indemnify, hold harmless 
and release the City, its Council Members, Officials and employees from actions, claims, damages, 
disabilities, or the costs of litigation that are asserted by any person or entity to the extent arising 
out of the negligent acts omissions or willful misconduct of the EDC’s employees or agents in the 
performance of this Agreement by EDC hereunder. 
68
Roswell EDC Services Agreement 
Page 4 of 55 
 
16. 
ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This Agreement embodies the entire agreement of the 
Parties with respect to the subject matters contained herein. This Agreement may be modified or 
amended, or the provisions hereof waived only by a written instrument signed by the duly 
authorized representatives of the Parties. 
17. 
SEVERANCE CLAUSE: In case any provision in this Agreement shall be held 
invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining 
provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 
18. 
CHOICE OF LAW AND FORUM SELECTION: This Agreement shall be 
governed by the laws of the State of New Mexico, exclusive of choice of law provisions, and venue 
for any judicial proceeding resulting here from shall lie in the Fifth Judicial District, Chaves 
County, New Mexico. 
19. 
NOTICES. Communication and notices- required by this Agreement, shall be 
effective if mailed or delivered to the following address: 
 
CITY MANAGER  
CITY OF ROSWELL 
PO Box 1838 
Roswell, NM 88202-1838  
 
PRESIDENT 
ROSWELL-CHAVES COUNTY 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
CORPORATION  
P.O. BOX 849 
Roswell, NM 88202 
 
(signatures of following page) 
 
69
Roswell EDC Services Agreement 
Page 5 of 55 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is executed this  
day of  
, 2020. 
 
“City” 
“EDC” 
 
CITY OF ROSWELL 
 ROSWELL-CHAVES COUNTY 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
CORPORATION 
 
 
 
 
 
By: Joseph Neeb, City Manager 
By: Mike Espirtu, Executive President                          
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
__________________________________ 
Sharon Coll, City Clerk 
70
Roswell EDC   Services Agmt - Exhibit A: Scope 
Page 1 of 33  
 
EXHIBIT A TO SERVICES AGREEMENT 
SCOPE OF WORK 
EDC shall be responsible for providing the following activities and services for the 
promotion of economic development in the City of Roswell and Chaves County.  
 
Business Retention, Expansion, and Recruitment: 
 
1. The EDC shall actively recruit new businesses and industries to Roswell, New Mexico; 
The EDC shall show growth of business and job creation as outlined in Exhibit B. 
2. Work to retain existing businesses by conducting one-on-one meetings to educate 
Roswell businesses by linking companies to services through determining needs 
regarding such things as financial needs, training opportunities, establish early warning 
signs of at-risk businesses, and by linking companies to programs available to assist 
them in economic growth. The EDC shall show growth of business participation and 
retention through metrics outlined in Exhibit B. 
a. Provide services to private sector and nonprofit developers including 
consultation on available assistance programs and recommendation on 
pursuance of certain programs; and assistance in obtaining financing, state or 
federal tax credits, tax abatements, tax increment financing, grants and other 
non-City sources of revenue or assistance. 
b. Provide services to existing and potential businesses including: technical 
assistance consultation; access to local, state and federal incentive programs; 
small business financing and referral to other service providers; and the 
provision of demographic, economic and real estate information. 
3. Promotion of workforce development by connecting with available local and state 
resources. 
4. Furnish technical services pertaining to all economic and industrial development 
matters as well as stimulation of entrepreneurship and small business growth 
recruitment of new business and investments including business attractions efforts for 
targeted business sectors. 
5. Collaboration with City Public Affairs to market Roswell, New Mexico regionally, 
nationally and internationally, while maintaining committed leadership that facilitates 
and encourages actions to simulate the local economy. 
6. Development and promotion of pro-business policies important to the greater Roswell 
area. 
71
Roswell EDC   Services Agmt - Exhibit A: Scope 
Page 2 of 33  
 
7. Recruitment of highly qualified and credentialed business leaders and staff to provide 
leadership in areas 
of commercial and community development. 
8. Provide technical support where needed and work cooperatively with the economic 
development agencies and, as appropriate, other jurisdictions and agencies such as the 
New Mexico Economic Development Department, to further the City’s economic 
development mission, strategy and policies, and to ensure alignment and synergy 
between the City and these agencies. 
9. Serve as the lead agency to coordinate, evaluate, and recommend incentive actions, as 
appropriate, for all development and redevelopment activities by serving as the key 
intake agency for all such development and redevelopment projects on behalf of the 
City, as well as the economic development agencies, whether staffed by the EDC or 
otherwise. These activities will be conducted in accordance with any economic 
development and incentive policies that may be adopted from time-to-time by the City. 
10. Actively participate with the City on the City’s comprehensive economic development 
strategy by providing technical assistance and communicating support for proposed 
and enacted state economic development and business legislation.  
11. Provide special assistance in the marketing and development of economic development 
opportunities within the Opportunity Zones located within the City of Roswell and 
Chaves County. 
12. Provide special assistance in the marketing and development of economic development 
opportunities at the Roswell Air Center (“RAC”) as follows: 
a. Market listings of RAC property. 
b. Act as advocates for the business located at RAC, except in contract 
negotiations between the City and any of its tenants.  
c. Act as a resource to connect businesses located at RAC with various funding 
opportunities identified by, and facilitated by EDC, as appropriate. 
d. Collaborate with school system and ENMU-R for employee development at 
RAC and related businesses located at RAC. 
e. Collaborate with City Staff at RAC to develop business opportunities on City-
owned real estate at RAC. 
f. Assist City Staff in reviewing under-utilized real estate through evaluations, 
walk-throughs, and provide assistance in marketing and recommendations for 
development. 
g. Assist the City in implementing and pursuing its marketing plan for RAC. 
h. Assist the City as a bridge to any applicable federal and state programs or 
72
Roswell EDC   Services Agmt - Exhibit A: Scope 
Page 3 of 33  
 
incentives that would further economic development at RAC. 
 
Technical Services: 
1. Develop a website designed to enhance the profile of Roswell as a competitive 
business opportunity and to communicate that profile regionally, nationally and 
internationally in conjunction with partners such as New Mexico Partnership, and the 
New Mexico Economic Development Department and other available partners. 
Additionally, coordinate with City Community Development Department in a website 
designed to highlight real estate development opportunities within the City. 
Other: 
 Performing such other related services as may be appropriate. 
 
 
 
73
Roswell EDC Services Agmt - Exhibit  B: Metrics 
Page 1 of 1 
 
EXHIBIT B 
 
METRICS 
 
The EDC will provide the following metrics to the City of Roswell: 
 
Report Template Outline 
 
1. Quarterly 
a. Brief description of recruitment efforts and growth of participation in EDC activities 
to be provided to City Council in a format and forum mutually agreed upon by the 
Parties. 
b. Profit and Loss Actuals vs Budget Financial Report 
c. Educational opportunities provided to members and non-members 
d. Job Creation Report 
 To include a cost/benefit analysis of jobs created versus money expended on 
development of such jobs 
e. Business Retention Report 
 To include a general report of businesses assisted 
 To include a list of business expansion opportunities or plans 
f. Industry Business Solicitation Report 
 To include executive project summaries (subject to appropriate 
confidentiality measures).  
 To include lost opportunities and recommendations for addressing perceived 
areas in need of improvement 
g. Housing & Retail Property Report  
h. New and changed programing  
i. Promotional campaigns 
j. Cooperative efforts with area organizations  
 
2. Annual Report 
a. End of year financial report (audited, if done) 
b. Proposed Annual Budget  
c. List of new industrial/economic-based businesses projected and/or acquired for the 
City of Roswell and Chaves County. 
d. List of trends in possible job losses for the community 
e. Overview of Operations & Strategic Plan for Proceeding year and planned future 
operations to solicit new business to Roswell, New Mexico 
f. Proof of liability insurance 
74
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
75
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
17.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
Legal
 
CONTACT: 
Parker Patterson
CHAIR: 
Judy Stubbs
ACTION REQUESTED:
Proposed Ordinance 20-06 – Airport Hazards and Obstructions – Consider approval to advertise for a public
hearing and vote on Proposed Ordinance 20-06 relating to modifying Article 4 (Definitions) and adding a new
Article 52, Section 18. (Stubbs/Morris)
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by: William Morris, AICP, CZO, Dir.
 
Staff created these amendment as a result to ensure that potential development located within the runway
protection zone is not allowed as it may present a hazard to aviation activities at the Roswell Air Center.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
There are no additional costs associated with this request.
LEGAL REVIEW:
The proposed ordinance has been submitted to the Legal Office for Review.  Amendments to the City’s Zoning
Code were first reviewed by the Planning & Zoning Commission, then Legal Committee, and, finally, City Council. 
As an Ordinance, Council must hold a public hearing after having provided public notice of the hearing.  The
Ordinance becomes effective five days after publication of its adoption.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
The Legal Committee recommended approval  (3-0) at their meeting on April 28, 2020, the Planning & Zoning
Commission  recommended approval (4-0) at their meeting on May 26, 2020, and Legal Committee again
recommended approval (3-0) at their meeting on May 28, 2020.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider approval to advertise for a public hearing and vote on Proposed Ordinance 20-06 relating to modifying
Article 4 (Definitions) and adding a new Article 52, Section 18.
Attachments
ATT 1 Proposed Ordinance 20-06 
76
PROPOSED ORDINANCE 20-06 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ROSWELL AMENDING THE ZONING CODE 
RELATING TO AIRPORT HAZARDS AND OBSTRUCTIONS BY MODIFYING 
ARTICLE 4 (DEFINITIONS), AND ADDING A NEW ARTICLE 52, SECTION 18 
(AIRPORT 
HAZARDS 
AND 
OBSTRUCTIONS), 
AND 
PROVIDING 
FOR 
SEVERABILITY AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE. 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Roswell operates the Roswell Air Center (RAC); and, 
 
WHEREAS, operations of the RAC need to be protected from activities or structures 
which may pose a safety hazard to these operations; and, 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Roswell Zoning Code should incorporate criteria for land 
development standards that help ensure the safe operations at the RAC. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE 
CITY COUNCIL AS THE 
GOVERNING 
BODY OF THE CITY OF ROSWELL, NEW MEXICO, that: 
 
Section 1. Modification of Article 4 (Definitions) 
 
(1) 
Aircraft means any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or 
designed for navigation of or flight in the air.  
 
(2) 
Airport hazard means any overhead power line which interferes with radio 
communication between a publicly owned airport and aircraft approaching 
or leaving same; or any structure or tree which obstructs the aerial 
approaches of such an airport or is otherwise hazardous to its use for 
landing or taking off.  
 
(3) 
Airport means the area of land owned by the city whether inside or outside 
the city limits that is used or intended to be used for the landing and takeoff 
of aircraft, including all property owned by the city contiguous thereto which 
is held or used for airport purposes and any purposes incidental thereto, 
and further includes all areas, facilities and improvements on or within said 
property regardless of the fact that they may be owned, controlled, leased 
or occupied by persons or governmental agencies other than the city.  
 
(4) 
Structure means any object constructed or installed by man, including, but 
without 
limitation, 
buildings, 
towers, 
smokestacks 
and 
overhead 
transmission lines.  
 
(5) 
Tree means any object of natural growth. 
 
Section 2. Addition of New Article 52, Section 18 (Airport Hazards and 
Obstructions) 
77
 
A. 
Airport Hazards Generally: 
 
1. 
Airport hazards not in public interest. It is hereby found and declared that 
an airport hazard endangers the lives and property of users of the airport 
and of occupants of land in its vicinity, and also, if of the obstruction type, in 
effect reduces the size of the area available for the landing, taking-off and 
maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to destroy or impair the utility of the 
airport and the public investment therein, and is therefore not in the interest 
of the public health, public safety or general welfare. 
 
2. 
Airport hazards include not only physical obstructions, but also include light 
features that may pose a hazard to aircraft by potentially blinding aircraft 
operators, including, but not limited to, searchlights, lasers, or ground-
mounted lighting that may mimic landing areas.  In addition, hazards may 
include any non-official activities that generates any types of non-physical 
hazards that may interfere with the operations of aircraft. 
 
B. 
Preparation of airport approach plans. The governing body is hereby empowered 
to formulate and adopt, and from time to time as may be necessary, revise an 
airport approach plan for any publicly-owned airport within its corporate or political 
limits. Each such plan shall indicate the hazards, the area within which measures 
for the protection of the airport's aerial approaches should be taken, and what the 
height limits and other objectives of such measure should be.  In adopting or 
revising any such plan, the governing body shall consider, among other things, the 
character of the flying operations expected to be conducted at the airport, the 
nature of the terrain, the height of existing structures and trees above the level of 
the airport, and the possibility of lowering or removing existing obstructions, and 
the governing body may obtain and consider the views of the agency of the federal 
government charged with the fostering of civil aeronautics as to the aerial 
approaches necessary to safe flying operations at the airport. 
 
C. 
Removal of airport obstructions. The governing body hereby is authorized and 
empowered whenever, in its judgment, any structure or object located adjacent to 
the airport or landing field constitutes a hazard to the efficient and safe use of the 
airport, or whenever notified of the existence of any such hazard, to require the 
removal and elimination or relocation of such structure or such object, and to 
acquire all necessary lands or rights-of-way and easements over lands incidental 
to such removal, elimination or relocation of any such structure or object upon 
payment to the owner of any land that may be affected by such relocation and the 
damages occasioned by such removal, elimination or relocation. 
 
Section 3. SEVERABILITY. 
 
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall for any reason be 
held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of that section, 
78
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this 
Ordinance. 
 
Section 4. EFFECTIVE DATE. 
 
This ordinance shall be effective after five (5) days following its publication as required by 
State law. 
 
PASSED, ADOPTED, SIGNED and APPROVED the 9th day of July, 2020. 
 
 
CITY SEAL 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Dennis Kintigh, Mayor 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Sharon Coll, City Clerk 
79
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
18.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
Legal
 
CONTACT: 
Parker Patterson
CHAIR: 
Judy Stubbs
ACTION REQUESTED:
Proposed Ordinance 20-07 - Consider approval to advertise for a public hearing and vote on Proposed Ordinance
20-07 Revising the Airport Ord, Chapter 5 of the Roswell City Code. (Stubbs/Morris)
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by: Airport Advisory Committee
 
The Airport Advisory Commission has undertaken a comprehensive review and revision of the Aviation Chapter of
the Roswell City Code. The ultimate goal would be to pare down the Ordinance of unnecessary and out dated
provisions to allow more efficiency in the operations of the Air Center.
This revision represents a smaller ordinance that could be adopted moving much of the duplicate language to
policies that would later come in front of Council for ratification. This is still one of several pieces that constitute the
complete plan for reworking the laws governing the Air Center. 
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
There is no additional financial consideration of this matter.
LEGAL REVIEW:
The city attorney assisted in drafting the revisions.
 
As an Ordinance, Council must hold a public hearing after having provided public notice of the hearing. The
Ordinance wouldbecome effective five days after publication of its adoption.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
The Legal Committee recommended (3-0) approval to advertise for a public hearing and vote on Proposed
Ordinance 20-07 at their meeting on April 23, 2020.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider approval to advertise for a public hearing and vote on Proposed Ordinance 20-07 Revising the Airport
Ord, Chapter 5 of the Roswell City Code.
Attachments
ATT 1 Proposed Ordinance 20-07 Airport Chapter 5 (clean and redline) 
80
 
 
 CLEAN VERSION 
 
ORDINANCE 20-07 
1 
 
2 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 5 OF THE ROSWELL CITY CODE 
3 
RELATING TO AVIATION 
4 
 
5 
 
Whereas, the City of Roswell operates an airport known as the Roswell Air Center 
6 
(“Airport”) for commercial and general aviation services; and 
7 
 
8 
 
Whereas, the City Council as the governing body of the City of Roswell desires to update 
9 
and streamline the laws and regulations governing the Roswell Air Center; 
10 
 
11 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL AS THE 
12 
GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF ROSWELL, NEW MEXICO, that Chapter 5 of the 
13 
Roswell City Code is hereby repealed in its entirety, except as provided for below and shall be 
14 
amended to read as follows: 
15 
 
16 
SECTION 1. 
Roswell City Code Sec. 5-17 shall be renumbered Sec. 5-1 and shall read as follows:  
17 
 
18 
Sec. 5-1. - Scope.  
19 
 
This article shall apply to all persons while on or over the Airport regardless of the status or 
20 
character of their use or occupancy of the Airport.  
21 
 
22 
 
As used in this article “Airport” means the area of land owned by the city whether inside or 
23 
outside the city limits that is used or intended to be used for the landing and takeoff of aircraft, 
24 
including all property owned by the city contiguous thereto which is held or used for airport 
25 
purposes and any purposes incidental thereto, and further includes all areas, facilities and 
26 
improvements on or within said property regardless of the fact that they may be owned, 
27 
controlled, leased or occupied by persons or governmental agencies other than the city. 
28 
 
29 
SECTION 2. 
Roswell City Code Sec. 5-18 shall be renumbered Sec. 5-2 and shall read as follows:  
30 
 
31 
Sec. 5-2. - Application of planning and zoning laws.  
32 
 
All Airport facilities are subject to planning and zoning laws, ordinances and regulations 
33 
applicable to the area in which the Airport facility is located. 
34 
 
35 
SECTION 3. 
Roswell City Code Sec. 5-19 shall be renumbered Sec. 5-3 and shall read as follows:  
36 
 
37 
Sec. 5-3. - Director.  
38 
 
There is hereby created the office of director of the Airport, and the director shall be 
39 
appointed by the city manager. The Airport director shall administer and supervise the operation 
40 
of the Airport under the general supervision of the governing body and city manager. The Airport 
41 
director is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this article by filing complaints in the 
42 
municipal court. 
43 
 
44 
SECTION 4. 
Roswell City Code Sec. 5-20 shall be renumbered Sec. 5-4 and shall read as follows:  
45 
 
46 
Sec. 5-4. - Rules and regulations.  
47 
(a) The Airport director shall have authority, to prepare and present to the governing body 
48 
81
 
 
 CLEAN VERSION 
 
for approval and adoption the following:  
1 
(1) rules and regulations for the management, operation and control of the Airport, and  
2 
(2) rules and regulations for the use and occupancy, management, control, operation, care, 
3 
repair and maintenance of all structures and facilities thereon, and all land on which the 
4 
Airport is located and operated. 
5 
(b) The city reserves the right to enforce these rules and regulations through an enforcement 
6 
and civil administrative process or pursue criminal penalties as provided by law. 
7 
 
8 
SECTION 5. 
A new section numbered Sec. 5-5 shall read as follows:  
9 
Sec. 5-5. – Minimum Standards and Requirements 
10 
 
11 
(a) The Airport Minimum Standards shall be developed consistent with FAA Advisory 
12 
Circular 150/5190-7, and all applicable Federal Aviation Regulations, and shall be 
13 
adopted by the city and be kept on file at the Airport director's office and the city clerk's 
14 
office.  
15 
(b) Minimum standards and requirements for commercial aeronautical operations shall be 
16 
administered by the Airport director.  
17 
(c) The standards and requirements shall apply to a person or persons, firm or corporation 
18 
based upon and engaging in one (1) or more commercial aeronautical operations at the 
19 
Airport.  
20 
SECTION 6. 
Roswell City Code Sec. 5-23 shall be renumbered Sec. 5-6 and shall read as follows:  
21 
 
22 
Sec. 5-32. - City's right to concessions and sales.  
23 
 
No person shall sell or offer to sell oil, gas, aviation fuel, food, or operate any concession in 
24 
or upon the Airport without having prior written approval from the governing body. The 
25 
governing body may withdraw such privilege to operate concessions and make sales upon good 
26 
cause shown. As used in this section good cause means default in, or violation of, the terms or 
27 
conditions of any lease agreement or contract, or violation of any provision or term of any 
28 
applicable federal or state law or regulation, or city ordinance, regulation or standard.  
29 
 
30 
 
Withdrawal of the privilege to operate concessions or sell oil or gas shall be accomplished 
31 
only after 30 days' written notice to the holder of the privilege, unless contractual terms provide 
32 
otherwise, or unless conditions present a threat to the health or welfare of the community.  
33 
Any person operating a concession within ten miles of the Airport if the concessionaire picks up 
34 
customers from any part of the Airport, to include premises leased by the Airport to a third party 
35 
doing business at the Airport. 
36 
 
37 
SECTION 7. 
Roswell City Code Sec. 5-31 shall be renumbered Sec. 5-7 and shall read as follows:    
38 
 
39 
Sec. 5-31. - Tampering with, disturbing, etc., Airport property.  
40 
 
No person shall tamper with, disturb, mar, deface or carry away any property or thing on the 
41 
Airport. 
42 
 
43 
82
 
 
 CLEAN VERSION 
 
SECTION 8. 
Roswell City Code Sec. 5-36 shall be renumbered Sec. 5-8 and shall read as follows:    
1 
 
2 
Sec. 5-36. - Violations generally.  
3 
 
It shall be unlawful to violate the terms of this article, and the city reserves the right to impose 
4 
any fines or penalties provided for by law. 
5 
 
6 
SECTION 9. 
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict or inconsistent herewith are hereby 
7 
repealed to the extent of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed to revive any 
8 
ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed. 
9 
 
10 
SECTION 10. 
If any section, paragraph, clause or provisions of this ordinance for any reason shall 
11 
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph, 
12 
clause or provision shall not affect any other part of this ordinance. 
13 
 
14 
SECTION 11. 
This ordinance shall be effective after five (5) days following its publication as 
15 
required by law. 
16 
 
17 
PASSED, ADOPTED, SIGNED and APPROVED ___                                ,              . 
18 
 
19 
CITY SEAL 
20 
 
21 
 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
           
 _____________________________ 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dennis Kintigh, Mayor 
24 
ATTEST 
25 
 
26 
 
27 
 
28 
_____________________ 
29 
Sharon Coll, City Clerk 
30 
 
31 
83
 
 REDLINE VERSION 
Underline Insertion Strikethrough Deletions  
 
ORDINANCE 20-07XX 
1 
 
2 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 5 OF THE ROSWELL CITY CODE 
3 
RELATING TO AVIATION 
4 
 
5 
 
Whereas, the City of Roswell operates an airport known as the Roswell Air Center 
6 
(“Airport”) for commercial and general aviation services; and 
7 
 
8 
 
Whereas, the City Council as the governing body of the City of Roswell desires to update 
9 
and streamline the laws and regulations governing the Roswell Air Center; 
10 
 
11 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL AS THE 
12 
GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY OF ROSWELL, NEW MEXICO, that Chapter 5 of the 
13 
Roswell City Code is hereby repealed in its entirety, except as provided for below and shall be 
14 
amended to read as follows: 
15 
 
16 
SECTION 1. 
Roswell City Code Sec. 5-17 shall be renumbered Sec. 5-1 and shall read as follows:  
17 
 
18 
Sec. 5-171. - Scope.  
19 
 
This article shall apply to all persons while on or over the Aairport regardless of the status 
20 
or character of their use or occupancy of the Aairport.  
21 
 
22 
 
As used in this article “Aairport” means the area of land owned by the city whether inside or 
23 
outside the city limits that is used or intended to be used for the landing and takeoff of aircraft, 
24 
including all property owned by the city contiguous thereto which is held or used for airport 
25 
purposes and any purposes incidental thereto, and further includes all areas, facilities and 
26 
improvements on or within said property regardless of the fact that they may be owned, 
27 
controlled, leased or occupied by persons or governmental agencies other than the city. 
28 
 
29 
SECTION 2. 
Roswell City Code Sec. 5-18 shall be renumbered Sec. 5-2 and shall read as follows:  
30 
 
31 
Sec. 5-2. - Application of planning and zoning laws.  
32 
 
All municipal Aairport facilities are subject to planning and zoning laws, ordinances and 
33 
regulations applicable to the area in which the Aairport facility is located. 
34 
 
35 
SECTION 3. 
Roswell City Code Sec. 5-19 shall be renumbered Sec. 5-3 and shall read as follows:  
36 
 
37 
Sec. 5-19. - Manager3. - Director.  
38 
 
There is hereby created the office of managerdirector of the municipal aAirport, and the 
39 
managerdirector shall be appointed by the city manager. The municipal aAirport 
40 
managerdirector shall administer and supervise the operation of the municipal aAirport under 
41 
the general supervision of the governing body and city manager. The Aairport managerdirector 
42 
is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this article by filing complaints in the municipal 
43 
court. 
44 
 
45 
SECTION 4. 
Roswell City Code Sec. 5-20 shall be renumbered Sec. 5-4 and shall read as follows:  
46 
 
47 
Sec. 5-204. - Rules and regulations.  
48 
84
 
 REDLINE VERSION 
Underline Insertion Strikethrough Deletions  
 
(a) The Aairport director shall have authority, to prepare and present to the governing body 
1 
may adopt such for approval and adoption the following:  
2 
(1) rules, standards and regulations as it deems necessary for the proper management, use 
3 
and operation and control of the municipal airport.Airport, and  
4 
(2) rules and regulations for the use and occupancy, management, control, operation, care, 
5 
repair and maintenance of all structures and facilities thereon, and all land on which the 
6 
Airport is located and operated. 
7 
(b) The city reserves the right to enforce these rules and regulations through an enforcement 
8 
and civil administrative process or pursue criminal penalties as provided by law. 
9 
 
10 
SECTION 5. 
A new section numbered Sec. 5-5 shall read as follows:  
11 
 
12 
Sec. 5-5. – Minimum Standards and Requirements 
13 
 
14 
(a) The Airport Minimum Standards shall be developed consistent with FAA Advisory 
15 
Circular 150/5190-7, and all applicable Federal Aviation Regulations, and shall be 
16 
adopted by the city and be kept on file at the Aairport director's office and the city clerk's 
17 
office.  
18 
(b) Minimum standards and requirements for commercial aeronautical operations shall be 
19 
administered by the Aairport director.  
20 
(c) The standards and requirements shall apply to a person or persons, firm or corporation 
21 
based upon and engaging in one (1) or more commercial aeronautical operations at the 
22 
Airport.  
23 
SECTION 6. 
Roswell City Code Sec. 5-23 shall be renumbered Sec. 5-6 and shall read as follows:  
24 
 
25 
Sec. 5-32. - City's right to concessions and sales.  
26 
 
No person shall sell or offer to sell oil, gas, aviation fuel, food, or operate any concession in 
27 
or upon the Roswell Municipal AirportAirport without having prior written approval from the 
28 
governing body. The governing body may withdraw such privilege to operate concessions and 
29 
make sales upon good cause shown. As used in this section good cause means default in, or 
30 
violation of, the terms or conditions of any lease agreement or contract, or violation of any 
31 
provision or term of any applicable federal or state law or regulation, or city ordinance, 
32 
regulation or standard.  
33 
 
34 
 
Withdrawal of the privilege to operate concessions or sell oil or gas shall be accomplished 
35 
only after 30 days' written notice to the holder of the privilege, unless contractual terms provide 
36 
otherwise, or unless conditions present a threat to the health or welfare of the community.  
37 
Any person operating a concession within ten miles of the Roswell Municipal AirportAirport if 
38 
the concessionaire picks up customers from any part of the Aairport, to include premises leased 
39 
by the Aairport to a third party doing business at the Aairport. 
40 
 
41 
SECTION 7. 
Roswell City Code Sec. 5-31 shall be renumbered Sec. 5-7 and shall read as follows:    
42 
85
 
 REDLINE VERSION 
Underline Insertion Strikethrough Deletions  
 
 
1 
Sec. 5-31. - Tampering with, disturbing, etc., Aairport property.  
2 
 
No person shall tamper with, disturb, mar, deface or carry away any property or thing on the 
3 
municipal Aairport. 
4 
 
5 
SECTION 8. 
Roswell City Code Sec. 5-36 shall be renumbered Sec. 5-8 and shall read as follows:    
6 
 
7 
Sec. 5-36. - Violations generally.  
8 
 
It shall be unlawful to violate the terms of this article, and the city reserves the right to impose 
9 
any fines or penalties provided for by law. 
10 
 
11 
SECTION 9. 
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict or inconsistent herewith are hereby 
12 
repealed to the extent of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed to revive any 
13 
ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed. 
14 
 
15 
SECTION 10. 
If any section, paragraph, clause or provisions of this ordinance for any reason shall 
16 
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph, 
17 
clause or provision shall not affect any other part of this ordinance. 
18 
 
19 
SECTION 11. 
This ordinance shall be effective after five (5) days following its publication as 
20 
required by law. 
21 
 
22 
PASSED, ADOPTED, SIGNED and APPROVED ___                                ,              . 
23 
 
24 
CITY SEAL 
25 
 
26 
 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
           
 _____________________________ 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dennis Kintigh, Mayor 
29 
ATTEST 
30 
 
31 
 
32 
 
33 
_____________________ 
34 
Sharon Coll, City Clerk 
35 
 
36 
86
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
19.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
Finance
 
CONTACT: 
Monica Garcia
CHAIR: 
Jason Perry
ACTION REQUESTED:
RFP-20-008 WAYFINDING  - Consider Scope of Service for RFP-20-008 WAYFINDING issuance for the
preparation of a strategy & analysis, brand integration design, fabrication, and installation of Wayfinding for the City
of Roswell.
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by: Juanita Jennings, Public Affairs Director
 
The City of Roswell created a Wayfinding Master Plan in 2016.  (6) Entryway signs have been designed, fabricated,
and installed throughout the City.  Concepts for downtown wayfinding have been developed; however, the overall
project for implementation and installation halted.  The Wayfinding project has been transferred from Community
Development to the Public Affairs Department as of 2020.   
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
There are no financial costs at this time.
LEGAL REVIEW:
Legal review will be performed at a later time following the selection of an appropriate firm.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
The Finance Committee recommended approval (4-0) at their meeting on June 4, 2020.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Consider Scope of Service for RFP-20-008 issuance for the preparation of a strategy & analysis, brand integration
design, fabrication, and installation of Wayfinding for the City of Roswell.
Attachments
ATT 1 Wayfinding RFP 
87
CITY OF ROSWELL 
Wayfinding RFP 
 
 
Scope of Services: 
The City of Roswell is requesting proposals for professional consulting. The area covered by this 
plan includes the entire City of Roswell. The area includes local and state rights-of-way. While 
there will be a concentration on downtown and the railroad district, Spring River Zoo, Transit 
Signage and other areas of the entire City should be evaluated and included. The key will be to 
take our new brand standard and build a system for the City of Roswell that directs visitors to a 
wide variety of community amenities. 
The selected consultant will be working with a committee. The following is a general 
description of the anticipated tasks expected of the consultant. In preparing a proposal, the 
consultant is encouraged to modify, revise or otherwise amend the list of tasks to best satisfy 
the objectives of the proposed signage and wayfinding plan.  
 
Task 1: Assess Existing Conditions and Needs (Strategy and Analysis) 
1.1 Review and assess existing City inventory of wayfinding signage.  
1.2 Review and assess existing City list of wayfinding destinations.  
• Downtown District 
• Spring River Zoo 
• Transit System 
• Roswell Air Center  
• Roswell Museum & Art Center  
• Roswell Convention & Civic Center  
• Other community amenities 
 
1.3 Identify user groups, their specific needs, and potential wayfinding difficulties as 
they affect the disabled, senior citizens, and new visitors to the area with respect to vehicular 
signage.  
1.4 Identify short, medium and long-term priorities areas for removal and replacement. 
 
Task 2: Develop Recommendation for Signage Types and Placement (Design) 
2.1 Recommend wayfinding signage types that should be added, replaced or 
consolidated (e.g., directional markers, street signs, parking signage, public facility identification 
signage, etc.);  
2.2 Using aerial imagery and/or GIS resources, develop a map of recommended 
wayfinding signage locations;  
2.3 Prepare detailed designs for select wayfinding features and identify “barriers to 
installation” in areas that may provide challenges;  
2.4 Briefly identify other opportunities for temporary or changeable special event or 
marketing signage including location and type of sign;  
88
2.5 Develop a list of recommended terminology and/or design icons for primary and 
secondary destinations (e.g., landmarks, public facilities, educational facilities, retail and dining 
destinations); and  
2.6 Prepare a cost estimate for the fabrication, installation, and maintenance of the 
system including the number of various sign types and locations.  
Task 3: Design Signage Elements (Fabrication) 
3.1 Recommend universal and cohesive design standards for wayfinding elements that 
are reflective of the City’s identity consistent in color, font, materials, architectural elements 
and graphics taking into consideration the City brand. In addition, the recommendations should 
take into account street-level visibility, safety, maintenance and replacement costs.  
3.2 Present for review by the City, seven (7) schematic design concepts of wayfinding 
signs, kiosk, kiosk with shaded structure with bench, special shade structure, gateways, obelisk, 
directional sign signs, parking signage, and/or other wayfinding elements that could be 
constructed and installed as part of a separate capital project; and  
3.3 After review of the seven (7) schematic proposals in Item 3.2 and selection of the 
desired proposal by the City, submit one (1) set of design professional signed and sealed final 
design concept drawings in AutoCAD format, including: exact dimensions, letter heights, 
materials, mounting details, color specifications and material performance standards with 
written statements regarding rationale for design choices. Drawings stamped by a design 
professional licensed in the State of New Mexico must be provided if proposed signage design is 
not of a type already approved by the New Mexico Department of Transportation. Contractor 
shall ensure that signage will be of a design that meets NMDOT requirements.  
3.4 The successful Bidder will provide signs and all materials needed for installation for 
approximately 80 wayfinding signs which will be installed throughout the City of Roswell.  
3.5 Provide full cost analysis of all: 
• Construction and manufacturing cost; 
• Installation cost; and  
• Long term maintenance cost.  
3.6 Wayfinding signs will be design with product longevity and ease of maintenance in 
mind.  
 
Task 4: Wayfinding Plan (Approval and Installation) 
4.1 Develop a consistent and standardized wayfinding plan that will enable the City to 
provide easily understood and comprehensive direction to visitors and residents. The plan 
should incorporate the recommended policies and criteria already identified and also identify 
proposed locations for different wayfinding classification types. 
4.2 Provide presentation materials for support of City staff public meeting(s).  
4.3 Provide presentation materials for support of combined consultant/City staff 
presentation to City Council. 
4.5 The ideal design plan should be rooted in proven place making and wayfinding 
methods and techniques.  
4.6 Install each component with consideration of the surrounding environment, line of 
sight and NM DOT regulations. 
89
Design Ownership. The City of Roswell shall own the rights to any and all designs including but 
not limited to logos or other unique markers approved by the City during this process. 
 
90
ROSWELL NEW MEXICO
AGENDA ITEM ABSTRACT
 
 
Regular City Council Meeting
20.        
Meeting Date:
06/11/2020
 
COMMITTEE: 
N/A
 
CONTACT: 
Parker Patterson
CHAIR: 
N/A
ACTION REQUESTED:
Hold a closed session -  (Stubbs/Patterson) 
• pursuant to NMSA 1978, § 10-15-1H (2), to discuss limited personnel matters relating to the City Manager's
evaluation.
• pursuant to NMSA 1978, § 10-15-1H (8) to discuss the purchase, acquisition or disposal of real property or water
rights relating to property located at the Roswell Air Center.
• pursuant to NMSA 1978 § 10-15-1H (7), to discuss attorney-client privilege pertaining to threatened or pending
litigation in which the City of Roswell is or may become a participant pertaining to city-owned rental property at the
Roswell Air Center, with the State of New Mexico and management service contracts. 
BACKGROUND:
Initiated by:  Joe Neeb
Hold a closed session -  
• pursuant to NMSA 1978, § 10-15-1H (2), to discuss limited personnel matters relating to the City Manager's
evaluation.
• pursuant to NMSA 1978, § 10-15-1H (8) to discuss the purchase, acquisition or disposal of real property or water
rights relating to property located at the Roswell Air Center.
• pursuant to NMSA 1978 § 10-15-1H (7), to discuss attorney-client privilege pertaining to threatened or pending
litigation in which the City of Roswell is or may become a participant pertaining to city-owned rental property at the
Roswell Air Center, with the State of New Mexico and management service contracts. 
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
There are no financial costs.
LEGAL REVIEW:
Pursuant to NMSA 1978, § 10-15-1(H) & (I), a majority of a quorum of the City Council may vote to enter closed
session, to discuss a narrow range of topics. No action may be taken during the closed session.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTION:
There is no board or committee review.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
Hold a closed session -  
• pursuant to NMSA 1978, § 10-15-1H (2), to discuss limited personnel matters relating to the City Manager's
evaluation.
• pursuant to NMSA 1978, § 10-15-1H (8) to discuss the purchase, acquisition or disposal of real property or water
rights relating to property located at the Roswell Air Center.
• pursuant to NMSA 1978 § 10-15-1H (7), to discuss attorney-client privilege pertaining to threatened or pending
litigation in which the City of Roswell is or may become a participant pertaining to city-owned rental property at the
Roswell Air Center, with the State of New Mexico and management service contracts. 
91
