“An Equal Opportunity Employer with a commitment to workforce diversification.” 
 
1 of 3 
PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT BOARD Project Review  
NOTICE OF MEETING & AGENDA    
 
TO: 
 
City of Ithaca Project Review Committee (Planning & Development Board) 
FROM:  
Lisa Nicholas, Deputy Director of Planning and Development  
DATE:   
June 5, 2020 
SUBJECT: 
Agenda for Project Review Committee Meeting: THURSDAY, JUNE 11 , 2020 
 
 
The Project Review Committee Meeting is scheduled to begin at 8:30 a.m. City Hall is closed to the Public. This 
meeting will be streamed at https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC7RtJN1P_RFaFW2IVCnTrDg.     
 
Please call or email Anya Harris at 274-6550 or aharris@cityofithaca.org, if you require additional information.  
  
8:30       Project:  Special Permit – Accessory Apartment  
Location:   101-105 Elmwood Ave 
Applicant:  Priscilla & Christopher Wildeman 
Anticipated Board Action(s) in June: Declaration of Lead Agency, Public Hearing, Determination of 
Environmental Significance, Approval of Special Permit 
Project Description: The applicants are requesting a special permit in order to convert an existing in-law 
apartment into a legal accessory apartment. The existing 450 SF studio apartment is in the basement of the 
2,700 SF home and contains a kitchen, full bathroom, and common space/sleeping area and is served by an 
external entry at the rear of the house. The floor area does not exceed 33 percent of the total habitable area of 
the building. The applicants are not proposing any interior or exterior changes to the building and the home will 
retain the appearance of a single-family residence. The property contains sufficient off-street parking for one 
additional car. The property is in the R-1 zoning district in which an accessory apartment is a permitted use 
requiring a special permit. This is an Unlisted Action under the City of Ithaca Environmental Quality Review 
Ordinance (“CEQRO”) and the State Environmental Quality Review Act (“SEQRA”) and requires environmental 
review.  
Project materials are available for download from the City website and are updated regularly: 
https://www.cityofithaca.org/DocumentCenter/Index/1171 
 
8:40    Project:   Minor Subdivision and Site Plan Approval  
Location:   209 Hudson Street  
Applicant:  Jagat Sharma on behalf of property owner 209 Hudson Street LLC 
Anticipated Board Action(s) in June: Preliminary & Final Subdivision and Preliminary Site Plan Approval  
Project Description: The applicant is proposing to subdivide the City of Ithaca Tax Parcel #82.-4-17 measuring 
26,484 SF (.608 acres) into two lots and construct one duplex and associated site improvements. Lot 1 will 
measure 6,088 SF (.140 acres) with 45 feet of frontage on Hudson Street and contains the existing house, and Lot 
2 will measure 20,382 SF (.47 acres) with 87 feet of frontage on Hudson Street and will contain the new duplex. 
The project is in the R-2a zoning district, which has the following minimum area requirements: 5,000 SF lot size 
and 45 feet of street frontage for single- or two-family dwellings, 30 percent lot coverage, 25-foot front yard, 10-
foot side yard, and a rear yard of 25 percent or 50 feet but not less than 20 feet. The subdivision has received an 
area variance for an existing side yard deficiency on Lot 1. The project is in the South Hill Overlay District for 
 
CITY OF ITHACA 
108 E. Green St. — Third Floor   Ithaca, NY    14850-5690 
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT 
JoAnn Cornish, Director 
Planning & Development – 607-274-6550                   Community Development/IURA – 607-274-6565 
E-Mail:  dgrunder@cityofithaca.org 
 
“An Equal Opportunity Employer with a commitment to workforce diversification.” 
 
2 of 3 
which subdivision is required, as district requirements allow no more than one primary use per tax parcel. The 
project includes four parking spaces, retaining/stone walls, new paving, walkways, and landscaping. Site 
development will require the removal of an existing pool, wooden fence and shed, three mature trees and 
associated paving and landscape elements. Access to both sites will be from the existing driveway, which will 
require easements to ensure permanent access. This is an Unlisted Action under the City of Ithaca Environmental 
Quality Review Ordinance (“CEQRO”) and the State Environmental Quality Review Act (“SEQRA”) for which the 
Planning Board, acting as the Lead Agency in environmental review, issued a Negative Declaration of 
Environmental Significance on July 24, 2018.  
 
NOTE: On November 6, 2018, the Board of Zoning Appeals voted to deny the variance for the existing side yard 
deficiency. The applicant filed an Article 78 proceeding challenging the Board’s decision. On March 5, 2019, the 
court ordered the Board to issue an area variance such that the applicant may subdivide the lot. The City 
appealed the court’s decision, and on April 16, 2020, the appellate court ordered the Board to issue an area 
variance such that the applicant may subdivide the lot. 
Project materials are available for download from the City website and are updated regularly: 
https://www.cityofithaca.org/DocumentCenter/Index/805 
 
8:55  Project:   Major Renovations – Balch Hall   
Location:   600 Thurston Ave, Cornell Campus  
Applicant:  Ram Venkat, Project Manager for Cornell University  
Anticipated Board Action(s) in June: Project Presentation, Declaration of Lead Agency 
Project Description: The applicant proposes to renovate the interior and exterior of the 167,000 GSF, six-story 
building in order to improve accessibility and capacity. Renovations that affect the exterior of the building 
include: replacing the remaining single-glazed steel windows; rebuilding and/or replacing gutters, downspouts, 
gable ends and parapet walls to allow for new waterproofing detailing; and installing four roof bulkheads and 
dormers to accommodate new elevators. Site improvements include grading and installation of accessible walks 
to building entrances, installation of new stairs and landscaping at the Arch to accommodate the new accessible 
path, and removal and replacement of four existing mature oak trees and other landscaping. The project also 
includes lighting and building systems replacements and upgrades to improve function and efficiency. This is an 
Unlisted Action under the City of Ithaca Environmental Quality Review Ordinance and the State Environmental 
Quality Review Act and will be treated as a Type 1 Action due to the historic nature of the building.  
Project materials are available for download from the City website and are updated regularly: 
http://www.cityofithaca.org/DocumentCenter/Index/1172 
 
9:10   Project:   Mixed-Use – Apartments and Retail 
Location:   120-140 Brindley Street/902 Taber Street 
Applicant:  Jason K Demarest for Ithaca Aeroplane Factory, LLC 
Anticipated Board Action(s) in June: Determination of Environmental Significance 
Project Description: The applicant is proposing to build a four-story mixed use building with a footprint of 
approximately 3,582 SF (GFA 14,328 SF). The 1.55-acre project site contains (2) one-story and (1) two-story 
commercial buildings, as well as parking, landscaping, and some out-buildings. The new building will contain 
office and retail on the first floor, office and residential on the second and third floors, and residential on the 
fourth floor for a total of five apartments, 1,100 SF of new commercial and approximately 6,000 SF of new office 
space. Site improvement will include two new curb cuts, an outdoor patio, landscaping, and a sidewalk and tree 
lawn along Taber Street. Phase 2 will include a 2,000 SF addition on the building closest to Taber Street. As part 
of the project, the property line on Taber Street will be moved to the north and property to the south will be 
incorporated into the street right of way to allow for a consistent width of 55 feet. This is a Type 1 Action under 
the City of Ithaca Environmental Quality Review Ordinance §176-4 B. (1)(h) [2] and the State Environmental 
Quality Review Act (“SEQRA”) §617.4 b. (11) and is subject to environmental review. The project site is in the 
Cherry Street Zoning District (CSD) and has received Design Review. 
Project materials are available for download from the City website and are updated regularly: 
https://www.cityofithaca.org/DocumentCenter/Index/1148 
“An Equal Opportunity Employer with a commitment to workforce diversification.” 
 
3 of 3 
9:25  Project:   Apartments & Parking  
Location:   215 E State/MKL Street  
Applicant:  Ithaca Properties LLC / Jeff Rimland  
Anticipated Board Action(s) in June: Public Hearing, Design Review, Review of FEAF Part 3 
Project Description: The applicant is proposing to demolish the eastern section of the existing public parking 
garage, rebuild two levels of public parking (approx. 130 spaces), construct one ground-level private parking 
area (approx. 34 spaces) and ten floors of residential with approximately 200 apartments. The new building 
will have an interior connection to the existing building and will be accessed through the entrance at 215 E 
State Street on the Commons. Likewise, the parking decks will connect to the new proposed decks and garage 
entrance to the west. The building will also feature a residential lobby on Green Street. Portions of the existing 
two-story Rothschild Building will be renovated to house amenity spaces for tenants. The project is in the CBD-
140 zoning district and is subject to Design Review. It will require area variances for rear yard setback and 
number of stories. It is also in the Street Level Active Use Overlay Zone (SLAU-OZ). The project will require 
approval from Common Council for sale of the property (air rights). This is a Type 1 Action under the City of 
Ithaca Environmental Quality Review Ordinance §176-4 B.(1)(b), (d), (k) and (n) and the State Environmental 
Quality Review Act (“SEQRA”) §617.4 b. (5)(iii) and (9) and is subject to environmental review. 
Project materials are available for download from the City website and are updated regularly: 
https://www.cityofithaca.org/DocumentCenter/Index/1160 
 
      9:40    Project:    Mixed Use – Apartments, Conference Center, & Public Parking  
Location:   120 E. Green Street (west end of Green Street Garage)  
Applicant:  Kathryn Chesebrough of Whitham Planning & Design for Vecino Group LLC  
Anticipated Board Action(s) in June: Continuation of Public Hearing, Review of FEAF Part 3  
Project Description: The applicant is proposing to demolish the western and center sections of the existing 
garage and helix to build 1) an 11-story building with a 22,120 SF footprint and 2) rebuild and expand the center 
section of the parking garage with a total of seven levels of parking and an increase of 241 spaces. The parking 
decks will be connected to the building by bridge on the second and seventh floors. The building will contain 
218 permanently affordable apartments on the fourth through eleventh floors in a U-shaped configuration. The 
first through third floors will have building amenities, a conference center and a small scale retail space. The 
Cinemopolis Plaza will maintain the current public pedestrian passage between the Commons and Green Street. 
It will be rebuilt and enhanced with lighting, signage, art, and landscaping. The applicant is also requesting 
consideration of a City Hall Plaza in the area that currently contains a small parking lot between the project site 
and City Hall. This proposal would feature a large outdoor gathering spot with paving, lighting, landscaping, and 
furnishings, while retaining a limited number of parking spaces. The project is in the CBD-140 zoning district and 
is subject to Design Review. It will require area variances for rear yard setback and potentially, for height, and 
may require a subdivision or lot line adjustment. The project will require approval from Common Council for 
sale of the property. This is a Type 1 Action under the City of Ithaca Environmental Quality Review Ordinance 
§176-4 B.(1)(b), (d), (k) and (n) and the State Environmental Quality Review Act (“SEQRA”) §617.4 b. (5)(iii) and 
(9) and is subject to environmental review.  
Project materials are available for download from the City website and are updated regularly: 
https://www.cityofithaca.org/DocumentCenter/Index/1143 
 
9:55    Agenda Review for 6-23-20 
 
10:00    Adjournment 
 
 
cc:           Mayor Svante Myrick & Common Council 
 
Dr. Luvelle Brown, Superintendent, ICSD 
 
Jay Franklin, Tompkins  County Assessment 
 
 
 
If you have a disability & would like 
specific accommodations to 
participate, please contact the City 
Clerk at 274-6570 by 12:00 p.m., no 
later than 2 days (not including 
weekends and holidays) before the 
meeting. 
