The City of Falls Church is committed to the letter and spirit of the Americans with Disabilities Act.
To request a reasonable accommodation for any type of disability, call 703-248-5032, TTY 711.
LIBRARY CONSTRUCTION OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
MEETING AGENDA
Virtual Meeting: https://meet.lync.com/fallschurch-fallschurchva/jcarroll/0BGPL5DF
Wednesday, June 10, 2020
2:00 p.m.
NOTICE: The meeting for which this agenda has been posted will be held pursuant to and in
compliance with the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, Section 2.2-3708.2 and state and local legislation 
adopted to allow for continued government operation during the COVID-19 declared emergency.
All participating members of the Library Construction Oversight Committee will be present at this meeting 
through electronic means. All members of the public may view this electronic meeting via this Skype meeting 
link: https://meet.lync.com/fallschurch-fallschurchva/jcarroll/0BGPL5DF.
Public comments may be submitted to jcarroll@fallschurchva.gov until 2:00 p.m. on June 10, 2020. All 
comments will be provided to the Library Construction Oversight Committee members and comments received 
by the deadline will be summarized during the meeting.
PLEASE NOTE: This meeting will be conducted via Skype. If you do not already use Skype, you will be 
prompted to install it when clicking the meeting link, so please take some time ahead of the meeting to do so. If 
needed, there are short instructions to install the application following the meeting agenda. Please email 
cmester@fallschurchva.gov if you need assistance with installation. During the meeting, staff will likely not be 
available to assist with installation.
Click here to download meeting documents.
1. Call to order, roll call and introduction of guests
2. Library Project Milestones
3. Library Project Budget
4. Library Project Schedule
5. Business not on the Agenda
6. Adjournment
Accessing Skype – New Users
Smartphone: If you plan to view the meeting on a smartphone, access your preferred app store to download the
“Skype” app. You will have to allow Skype access to some features on your phone and accept their terms and 
conditions.
PC/Windows: If you plan to view the meeting on a personal computer, visit www.skype.com to download and 
install the program. You will have to allow Skype access to some features on your computer and accept their 
terms and conditions.
After downloading Skype:

Click the advertised meeting link to join the Skype meeting.

When the app opens, click ‘Join as Guest’ and enter your name. Click the blue arrow to continue.

The meeting will start with your microphone and video features turned off. As an observer, you can 
view or listen to the meeting without these features. If you are a meeting participant, you should 
enable at least the microphone feature. Video is not required but may be useful. Depending on your 
role in the meeting, there may be restrictions on whether you can speak during the meeting. 
