City of Del Mar, 1050 Camino Del Mar, Del Mar, CA  92014 
Phone: 858-755-9313   Fax:  858-755-2794 
 City of Del Mar 
Planning Commission Agenda 
Del Mar Town Hall 
1050 Camino Del Mar 
Del Mar, California 
6:00 P.M. 
Tuesday, June 9, 2020 
MEETING CANCELLED DUE TO A 
LACK OF ITEMS
Ted Bakker 
Chair 
Philip Posner 
Vice Chair 
Don Countryman 
Commissioner 
John Farrell 
Commissioner 
Joseph D. Smith 
Planning & Community 
Development Director 
Amanda Lee 
Principal Planner 
Agenda 
It is the intention of your Planning Commission to be receptive 
to your concerns about your community.  Your participation in 
local government will assure a responsible and efficient City of 
Del Mar. 
Regular Meetings of the Planning Commission are generally 
held on the second Tuesday of the month, beginning at 6:00 
p.m.  For further information regarding the scheduling of 
meetings or meeting agendas, check the City’s web-site at 
www.delmar.ca.us, or call the Planning Department’s office at 
858-755-9313.  A full Planning Commission agenda packet with 
all backup information is available at City Hall, the Del Mar 
Library, and on the City’s web site the Friday before each 
Planning Commission meeting. 
Unless otherwise noted, for items on the agenda, applicants 
and their team of representatives shall limit their [total] 
presentations to 10 minutes or less.  Other speakers may 
address the Planning Commission for three minutes each.  
Please submit a “Request to Speak” form to the staff member 
prior to the Chair announcing the agenda item.  The forms are 
located near the door at the rear of the Meeting Room.  The 
Agenda item number being addressed should be indicated on 
the speaker slip.  The Chair will call you forward at the 
appropriate time.   
The applicant or authorized representative must be present in order to ensure action by the 
Commissioners. 
Meeting will end at 11:00 p.m. unless extended by a majority vote of the Commissioners.  If all 
the items on the agenda are not heard, the remaining items will be heard the following Tuesday (if 
facilities are available) at 2010 Jimmy Durante Boulevard, Suite # 100. 
When addressing the Planning Commission, please step forward to the lectern and state your 
name and address for the record.  Whenever possible, lengthy testimony should be presented to 
the Commissioners in writing and only pertinent points presented orally.   
Planning Commission Meeting      
June 9, 2020 
Agenda  
Page 2 of 3 
Consent Calendar:  The Consent Calendar is considered by the Planning Commission near the 
beginning of the agenda.  Items placed on the Consent Calendar will be approved in accordance 
with the staff recommendations for the item unless removed from the Consent Calendar by 
Commissioners, staff, or a member of the public.  If you wish to keep an item from being placed on 
the Consent Calendar, please submit a “Request to Speak” form to the staff member prior to the 
meeting or be prepared to indicate an objection to the placement on the Consent Calendar when 
the Chair or staff asks if there are any objections to approval of the Consent Calendar. 
This notice will be the only written notice sent.  Items, which are continued by the Planning 
Commission from one Planning Commission meeting to another “date certain” meeting date, will 
not be re-noticed through the mail. 
Final action - the decision of the Planning Commission is final unless a written appeal is filed with 
the City Clerk, accompanied with a processing fee, within ten (10) working days from the date of 
notice of the action taken on the application.  An approved permit shall not be valid until the 10-day 
appeal period has expired.  The appeal is then forwarded to the City Council, which determines at 
the Initial Consideration whether to reject the appeal, thereby upholding the Planning Commission’s 
decision, or to set the matter for a subsequent date for a new (de novo) public hearing review.  If a 
de novo public hearing is set by the City Council, an additional fee will be required. 
Special Needs:  In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you need special 
assistance to participate in this meeting, please contact the City Clerk’s office at 858-755-9313.  
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to 
ensure accessibility to this meeting.  
As a courtesy to all meeting attendees, please set cellular phones and pagers to silent mode
and engage in conversations outside the Commissioners Chambers. 
Meeting Decorum: 
All persons attending the Planning Commission meeting shall conduct themselves in a courteous 
and respectful manner.  Comments shall be directed to the members of the Commission, rather 
than to others in attendance at the meeting.  The Chairperson (or Vice Chair or Chair pro-tem in 
their absence), is designated as the parliamentarian for the meeting.  As deemed appropriate, they 
may interrupt a speaker with instruction to redirect their remarks to relevant points on the agenda 
item before the Commission.  They may also terminate a speaker's oral presentation if comments 
continue to be non-relevant or become disrespectful. 
Note:  The entirety of the City of Del Mar is located within the Coastal Zone.  Some of the 
development projects listed on this agenda, as noted, require the receipt of a Coastal Development 
Permit.  Some of these projects may also lie in what is known as the “Coastal Development Appeals 
Area”.  For the projects located in the appeals area, the City’s action on the requested Coastal 
Development Permit may be appealed to the California Coastal Commission.  An appeal may be 
filed with the Coastal Commission within the ten calendar days following the Coastal Commission’s 
receipt of a notice from the City of its final action on the Coastal Development Permit application.  
However, before an appeal may be filed with the Coastal Commission, the City’s action on the CDP 
application must be final, meaning that all of the City’s [separate and internal] appeals processes 
must first be exhausted.
ROLL CALL 
APPROVAL OF MINUTES  
UPDATE 
PLANNING COMMISSION/STAFF DISCUSSION  (Non-Application Items)\ 
Planning Commission Meeting      
June 9, 2020 
Agenda  
Page 3 of 3 
HEARING FROM THE AUDIENCE ON ITEMS NOT LISTED ON THE AGENDA (Oral 
Communications) 
DISCUSSION AND BRIEFING (Application Items) 
CONSENT CALENDAR: 
The Planning Commission at the beginning of the meeting can place any item on the 
agenda upon the Consent Calendar.  Consent Calendar items are not subject to public 
testimony.  If you have a concern and wish to present information to the PC, you must be 
present at the beginning of the meeting to ensure the item will not be placed on consent, 
or write a letter to the PC prior to the meeting expressing why the application should be 
taken off the Consent Calendar. 
ADJOURNMENT 
I, Jennifer Gavin, Associate Planner for the City of Del Mar, certify that a copy of the foregoing was 
posted at the Del Mar City Hall on Thursday, May 28, 2020. 
_______________________________ 
Jennifer Gavin, Associate Planner 
Planning and Community Development Department
