 
 
 
WESTON SELECT BOARD 
MEETING AGENDA 
TUESDAY, JUNE 9, 2020 at 7:00 P.M. 
MEETING LINK:  https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84298624396 
MEETING ID:  842 9862 4396 
CALL-IN NUMBER: 929-205-6099  
www.weston.org 
 
selectboard@westonma.gov 
 
Pursuant to Governor Baker’s March 12, 2020 Order Suspending Certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §18, and the Governor’s March 15, 2020 Order concerning imposition on strict limitations on the number of people 
that may gather in one place, meetings in the Town of Weston will be conducted via remote participation to the greatest 
extent possible. We will strive to provide access to such meetings via a link to call in, or other similar option. In the event 
we are unable to accommodate the same, despite best efforts, we will post recorded sessions of the meeting as soon as possible 
following the same. No in-person attendance of members of the public will be permitted, but every effort will be made to 
ensure that the public can adequately access the proceedings 
 
7:00 p.m. 
Resident Comments 
 
7:10 p.m. 
Meet the Candidates for the Weston Cultural Council:  Catherine Bassick, Sharada (Sonali)  
Tambe, and Teresa Young 
Anthony Butler, Chair 
 
7:20 p.m. 
Meet the Candidates for the Board of the Council on Aging: Paul Bau, Linda Johnson,  
Wayne Johnson, Teresa Young 
Marge Ackerman and Gerri Scoll, co-chairs 
 
7:35 p.m. 
Brief Update on Annual Town Meeting and Annual Town Election, and Review and  
Approve the July 1/12 Budget 
(vote anticipated) 
 
8:00 p.m. 
Meet with Recreation Master Plan Steering Committee to Review the Updated Master Plan  
and Receive Update from Recreation Director on Recreation Summer Programming 
 
 
Trevor MacDonald, Chair, and Chris Fitzgerald, Recreation Director 
 
8:30 p.m. 
Approve the Police Sergeant/Patrol Union Agreement and the PEC Agreement 
(vote anticipated) 
 
Remote Online Attendance and/or Call-in Participation Instructions 
• 
To use Zoom with video on a smart phone or tablet you must download the Zoom app first. After 
you’ve downloaded the app, enter the Zoom Meeting ID. 
• 
To use Zoom on a computer, you have to download an installer the first time you join a meeting, 
which you’ll automatically be asked to do. After that, you’ll join meetings automatically when you 
click on the meeting link. 
• 
Use the call-in number to join the meeting in audio-only mode. The call-in number is access if your 
computer doesn’t have a microphone/speaker. 
• 
You will be entered into a “waiting room” prior to joining the meeting.  
• 
If you are calling in on a phone, you will be asked to identify yourself before you can enter the 
meeting 
Instructions for Public Comment 
• 
All participants will be on mute upon entering the meeting. Please keep yourself on mute 
• 
The public is asked not to speak until the Chair asks for public questions/comments 
• 
To be recognized, click on the “Participants” button on the lower (or upper) bar and activate the ‘Raise 
Hand’ icon. You will be placed in a queue and called upon in order.  
• 
For participants calling in on a phone, you will be unmuted in the meeting but please keep your phone 
on mute to reduce background noise. Call-in participants will be asked for comment and you can 
unmute yourself then to speak up to be recognized 
• 
The chat function has been disabled 
