Central Minnesota  
Regional Logger Committee Meeting 
Location: Microsoft Teams Meeting ONLY 
Join Microsoft Teams Meeting 
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, physical meeting locations are unavailable 
June 12th, 2020 (Immediately following the end of the RAC) 
 
Agenda 
 
 
1. Call to Order 
2. Roll Call 
3. Revisions and Approval of Agenda 
4. Approval of Minutes, May 8th, 2020 
 
(P1-7)  
5. Communications 
 
New Business 
6. Service Level Agreement (discussion) 
 
 
Old Business 
7. Logger User Concerns 
8. Open Discussion 
9. Next Meeting  
July – 10th Alexandria Fire Hall (Physical location dependent upon COVID-
19 circumstances) 
10. 
Adjourn 
 
 
 
1 
 
Central Minnesota 
Regional Logger Committee Meeting 
Microsoft Teams Meeting 
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, physical meeting locations are unavailable 
May 8, 2020 – 11:00 a.m. (After RAC) 
 
 
Members/Alternates Present: 
1. 
Micah Myers & Brandon Larson, Chair – City of St. Cloud  
2. 
Sheriff Mark Brown – Big Stone County 
3. 
Mike Henrion, Vice Chair – Douglas County  
4. 
Jon Combs – Grant County 
5. 
Jason Karlgaard – Otter Tail County 
6. 
Sheriff Tim Riley – Pope County 
7. 
Mary Lieser & Kristen Lahr – Stearns County 
8. 
Dona Greiner – Stevens County 
9. 
Haley Dubois – Wright County 
 
Members/Alternates Absent: 
10. 
Kandiyohi County  
11. 
Meeker County 
12. 
Mille Lacs County 
13. 
Sherburne County 
14. 
Wilkin County 
 
Guests Present: 
Andy Beckstrom – Mille Lacs County 
Dave Theis – Regional Coordinator Contract  
Derek Leyde – Northland Business Systems 
Scott Wosje – Northland Business Systems 
 
Approval of the Agenda 
Larson made a couple of edits to the agenda. Larson identified item #7 Technical Assistance as an 
action item. Larson made item #10 Regional Admin Opening an action item as well. City of St. Cloud 
made a motion to approve the amended agenda. Big Stone County seconded. Roll call vote: City of 
St. Cloud – approved; Big Stone – approved; Douglas – approved; Grant – approved; Otter Tail – 
approved; Pope – approved; Stearns – approved; Stevens – approved.   
Approval of Minutes 
Pope County motioned to approve the minutes from March 13, 2020. Otter Tail County noted a 
correction that Jason Karlgaard attended, not Keith VanDyke. City of St. Cloud seconded. Roll call 
vote: City of St. Cloud – approved; Big Stone – approved; Douglas – approved; Grant – approved; 
Otter Tail – approved; Pope – approved; Stearns – approved; Stevens – approved.   
 
Communications 
None. 
 
2 
 
NEW BUSINESS 
6. ByLaws 
Larson explained we discussed this at our last meeting. We have both a clean version and 
the edited version, that have been posted more than 30 days since we did not meet at our 
last meeting. City of St. Cloud moved to approve. Grant County seconded. Larson asked for 
further discussion. Roll call vote: City of St. Cloud – approved; Big Stone – approved; Douglas 
– approved; Grant – approved; Otter Tail – approved; Pope – approved; Stearns – approved; 
Stevens – approved. Motion approved.  
 
7. Technical Assistance 
Larson explained this piece came up with Washington County bringing forth their intent to 
join the Regional Logger. When we had initial conversations with another region there was a 
question surrounding a concern about pulling talkgroups from a different zone into our zone 
and putting undo bandwidth loading on the interzone site links. There was a concern there 
would be a noticeable disruption on the ARMER system. With us taking the Washington 
County request through SECB governance, to make sure we alleviate any concern, we 
motioned and approved to request technical assistance through the O&O Committee for 
Dave Theis’ time to research this issue. In your meeting packet, is Dave’s report.  
 
Dave Theis reported there is some background information there that talks about call 
processing. There are routers at each site called exit routers that connect the 6 zones 
together in the state. These exit routers are connected with four T1s used in what is called 
aggregation mode. Which provide a total bandwidth a little bit in excess of 6 megabits. Part 
of the challenge was trying to find a tool that could be used to measure and manage 
bandwidth on the interzone links. Some people are familiar with Provisioning Manager and 
zone historical reports where you can run reports on virtually everything on the system. 
There does not exist a tool that lets you look at calls being sent across the interzone links. In 
other words, calls being sent out to another zone by the exit routers. When does that 
happen? Anytime there is a statewide talkgroup call. In some cases, some regional calls, 
sometimes a county roam channel, will traverse the interzone links. But there is no tool to 
be able to measure that. Theis did go to Motorola Systems Engineering, spoke with Susie 
the Systems Engineering Manager, and she got a guy on the phone, a network architect, his 
name is Vince. Vince has been around a long time. He has a lot of history with P25. Theis 
detailed the summary of that conversation with Vince in that the question came up many 
years ago how to gauge the interzone bandwidth. Since there was not a tool, they had some 
custom software. They used some devices call bulk call generators which basically flooded 
the interzone links with talkgroup calls and analog calls. They could never reach a point 
where the four T1’s got choked for bandwidth. They made a decision then that it is never 
going to happen given the size, capacity and design of a P25 system with up to 7 zones. 
There is no possible way that you can choke the bandwidth on an interzone link.  
 
Theis does have a section called Exit Router T1 Link Sizing. Theis explained Susie and I were 
able to find an old bandwidth planner that lets an engineer design a system and size the 
interzone links. You can have up to 4 T1s. If you look at those examples there. The first 
screenshot shows on the zone pairs, zone 1 connected to zone 4. It shows five analog 
channels and 25 trunked talkgroups passing a link.  
 
3 
 
NEW BUSINESS (Continued) 
7. Technical Assistance (Continued) 
Theis explained all the way to the right it says how many T1s are required. In this case, it is 
two. Theis ran some scenarios here. If you look at the bottom one [screenshot], Theis has 20 
analog channels, 200 simultaneous talkgroups now crossing the link. Four T1s is capacity. 
There will rarely, if ever, be 200 simultaneous trunked calls passing across an interzone link. 
There might be more than 20, but it depends upon technical factors. For most routine 
operations we will never get close to reaching the needed capacity to get to enough 
talkgroups occurring at the same time to even get close to needing four T1s.  
 
Theis noted based on all that, there is precedence in the system today where consoles are 
being used across interzone links. Most recent one is Hennepin County is relocating one of 
their dispatch sites from Zone 2 into Zone 1. They are going to relocate it to downtown 
Minneapolis in their public safety facility. That will be a Zone 1 console connected to Zone 2 
resources. Another words, Hennepin West/Hennepin East. Those simulcast cells exist on 
Zone 2. Theis did ask King if he had to go to the LMR or MESB to get permission and he said 
it was never an issue. There is precedence out there where it is happening today and no one 
is questioning whether, or not, there is going to be a problem with interzone link capacity. 
Based on all this, Theis sees no reason why there would be any problem in terms of 
interzone link capacity that Washington County cannot join the Central MN Regional Logger.  
 
Lahr asked with this, and with Dave’s findings on the capacity on those interzone links, do 
we anticipate this approval still needing to go to OTC just to present what we found? Larson 
wants to be very clear and upfront with the whole governance process. The concern was 
already brought to us in a conversation Larson was in by the current LMR Chair. Larson 
wants to take this process next to O&O and then forward through SECB governance unless 
there is an objection from the Committee. Lahr agreed. Theis would suggest knowing how 
the MESB likes to work, and it will be affecting Zone 1, Theis would say it would make sense 
to follow a normal process. Get the required approvals even though it may not seem like it 
would be required.  
 
Myers explained we have tried to be above board with everything we have done with the 
logger. One of the reasons why it took us so long to get to market before we went live with 
this is the hoops we had to jump through with the BCA. We do not want to change course, 
keep doing what it is, and set the model for everyone else to follow.  
 
Larson asked do you feel it appropriate to take this separately to the MESB, or is it fine to go 
O&O and then to LMR? If LMR wishes to kick us over to MESB we can do that as well. Myers 
agreed. Lahr responded is this our region’s acceptance of Washington County to join the 
logger, or has that already been done? Larson reported we have approved the intent, our 
ESB has not approved an official joining. We approved the intent contingent upon this 
process from this research. Larson stated the next step would be to take this to Owners & 
Operators based upon action from the Committee approving this technical assistance report 
and approval to move it forward to O&O through the governance process. City of St. Cloud 
motioned to approve from this group, and then move it forward as discussed to the O&O, 
then to LMR and whatever committees the LMR deems we follow. Stevens County seconded.  
 
4 
 
NEW BUSINESS (Continued) 
7. Technical Assistance (Continued) 
Larson called for further discussion. Roll call vote: City of St. Cloud – approved; Big Stone – 
approved; Douglas – approved; Grant – approved; Otter Tail – approved; Pope – approved; 
Stearns – approved; Stevens – approved; and Wright – approved. Motion approved. 
 
8. Northland Business – Proposal  
Wosje reported in passing the conversation has come up how can we record either 
temporarily, smaller agencies are looking to save costs. With the ability to record when a 
911 center gets shut down, in this case due to a possible pandemic, nobody has thought 
about this in advance. Agencies are starting to think if we have our dispatchers work at 
home, especially as agencies start to go with the hosted Vesta solution, how can we have 
those at home 911 operators still be able to record? There is a way to do that. What we are 
working through is a temporary license verses a hosted license. That is the premise of the 
conversation to start floating out to the Logger Committee.  
 
Leyde explained we have had discussions with Vesta regarding this as well. Whether it is a 
temporary license or a subscription. Those are some things we have thought about, IP 
recording and screen recording. Wosje explained the intent was to just kick off the concept 
to get the temperature of the group. Similar to Washington County, outside agency, not a 
member of the group, is it something you even want to consider as a possible revenue 
opportunity? Government agencies typically do not do things to make money, but 
operational efficiency with the backbone that you already have in place.  
 
Larson explained with the COVID Continuity of Operations Planning ‘enhanced’ planning, 
some regions are starting to think well outside the box. Thinking about what if we cannot 
staff our center. With our CPE vendor we have the ability to have dispatching from home. 
There would then be a need to be able to log and record the phone calls. Primarily over IP 
and there would be a need to offer those entities an ability to do so. With the Regional 
Logger, we are all set-up for that. Larson does not know that there would be discussion, 
desire, or need for radio logging at this time. But it would be some urgent need to log 911 
phones, perhaps screen capture if the agency desired. The question to the committee is, are 
you open to the idea of continuing to do shared services with more entities outside of our 
region? Wosje added we are specifically talking about telephony, phone calls, no radio.  
 
Otter Tail County’s question to the group is any dispatch center entertaining the idea of 
having dispatchers at home? Otter Tail County is not looking at that right now. There is a lot 
of other steps we would need to be looking at well before recording. Recording would be 
one of those if we were looking at that, but it is not an option right now. Wosje replied no 
body within your region. It is coming up as smaller agencies, might not have the resources 
and nobody is even wanting to do it right now. It is COOP operations version 2 or 3 they are 
just starting to think, ‘What would happen if?’ Nobody is coming to us now saying we need 
this, we need a plan and we need to know how much it is going to charge. Right now, they 
are just concerning what would happen if our dispatchers were at home? We would have to 
record and how could we do that.  
 
 
5 
 
NEW BUSINESS (Continued) 
8. Northland Business – Proposal  
Stevens County is thinking well beyond COVID, but thinking potential hazmat incident, if we 
would need to evacuate our PSAP. Using this for something like that? Larson thinks there is 
a multitude of different reasons to do it. Larson brought up the dispatching from home as 
being a genesis of thought of this. But, it would not necessarily be something restricted to 
only that. It would be an entity coming to us, or Northland, looking for a solution saying we 
want logging, where can we find that? And the question of, would the Regional Logger, 
since we have the infrastructure, continue to be open to sharing services at that level. There 
would be specifics to be hammered out in details. At the high-level, is this something the 
committee would support? Stevens County does not know enough to share enough with 
her sheriff for his opinion at this time, but if there is more information she could share she 
sure would. Larson rephrased, when we had the conversation of Washington County coming 
on, we asked the committee members, “Are you open to sharing services with another 
region, county, etc.” At the time the response was yeah, as long as it makes sense and 
depending upon the finance and capacity piece. Larson wants to understand is that still the 
feeling of the committee today? Lahr would assume it likely would be, but it is just hard for 
people to respond to a hypothetical question of what are we saying ‘yes’ to. It would be on 
a case-by-case basis. We are open to doing business with agencies outside of our county, 
but we just need to address what that encompasses just to make sure it fits within the 
scope of capacity of the Regional Logger and finances, etc. Otter Tail County concurred.  
 
Larson asked is there any apprehension from the committee to have us continue to work 
with Northland to explore additional shared services with others outside of our region? Lahr 
would say ‘no,’ because those individual requests you would always bring back to the 
committee for consideration anyway, correct? Larson is wondering is there any hesitance in 
having us move forward to lay the ground work for it right now? The specific individual 
requests we would bring forth before the committee and the governance process. Lahr 
cannot think of objection for laying the groundwork for that from her county’s perspective. 
Larson heard [read in chat] from Stevens County she is agreeing with a case-by-case basis. If 
there is no objection, then we will just move forward on laying the groundwork and bring 
back to the committee any forward movement on it, if any at all.   
 
9. Logger Update  
Leyde explained currently there are some minor issues we are working through with Mille 
Lacs, Otter Tail and Kandiyohi County accessing calls. The calls are there, they are recorded. 
But as far as the view and the tagging our team is working through that. We are rolling out 
Kaseya, with the RMM (remote monitoring). We are roughly 60% of the way through that. 
Hopefully in the next month to bring to the committee our plan to remove the v5 loggers 
that are in place, that extra layer of redundancy we have. We are still open to any onsite 
training that anyone would request. We have the videos we shared with the Central Region. 
 
Larson mentioned the City of St. Cloud will be doing some maintenance next Wednesday. 
There will be a logger outage. We are hoping the actual outage of logging will only be a 
matter of minutes. We are going to be replacing some switches that support the logger 
itself.  
 
6 
 
OLD BUSINESS  
10. Regional Admin Opening 
Larson reported we discussed this at our last meeting. Currently, Randy Celander serves as 
the regional admin for the logger. The role entails receiving any data practice requests. 
Largely, it has been from other public safety agencies requesting audio from regional or 
statewide interops, then handling that data practice request appropriately. They are not 
asked to go in, or have access to local talkgroups of yours. Any request of those kind they 
send them to the local entity. Recently, we did have Swift County that put in a request that 
Randy Celander is working on. Larson did have interest from Mary Lieser, Stearns County. 
Mary was still interested in filling the vacancy. Larson asked if anyone else was interested in 
this vacancy. Larson sought a motion to have Mary Lieser fill Al Fjerstads position as regional 
admin. City of St. Cloud motioned, Douglas County seconded. Roll call vote: City of St. Cloud 
– approved; Douglas – approved; Grant – approved; Otter Tail – approved; Stearns – 
approved; Stevens – approved; and Wright – approved. Motion approved. Motion approved. 
 
11. Logger User Concerns  
 
 
Otter Tail County is working with Northland right now. There is one entire week in April 
where we are not able to access any radio recordings. They tell us the recordings are there, 
it is just they are not displaying for us when we search for them. Otter Tail explained when 
you go to add/update a remark on a file it seems like the first time you do it takes a 20-30 
second delay just waiting for that box to open. Leyde asked if anyone else experience that 
issue? Wright County has. Leyde explained we have been talking to Verint and we are trying 
to get a better understanding of the latency between the centralized equipment and each 
agency, because we cannot replicate that in our test lab. Worse case our team could get 
those recordings from the v5 logger. Leyde explained we have confirmed these recordings 
are in the v15, it is more of a tagging issue. Similar to v5, it would upload to the centralized 
CAS and it has to tag to an agent within the system. It is a tagging database issue at a high 
level. We have the Verint engineers involved and it is escalated right now to a tier 3 status. 
It is a critical status for them. Any issues in the meantime reach out to our team and we can 
get you the calls on the v5 system. Otter Tail County went back to add/update remarks, it 
seems like just the first time he goes to do it after he logs in it will take a good 20-30 
seconds. And any time after that there is still a delay, but it is maybe 5-10 seconds. Leyde 
asked are you using Chrome or Microsoft Edge? Otter Tail is using Internet Explorer (IE). 
Leyde replied what we are starting to do with agencies now is use either Edge or Chrome. 
The next update we run will actually have full support for Chrome. But we have seen with 
the versions you guys are currently on that better performance with Chrome and Edge. 
Leyde added as an FYI, Otter Tail will be the first in the state to do it with the hosted Vesta 
doing the SIP/IP recording and we are going to be doing some testing with Brad from 
Motorola next week. We have to confirm the quality for the recording is not more high 
definition than the quality of what the dispatcher hears on the phone. Otter Tail County 
reported he was not aware of using the Chrome browser, he had tried that shortly after 
they went to the v15 and it was not working then and someone at Northland said we had to 
use IE. Leyde replied Internet Explorer was the preferred during the initial roll-out, but it is 
not a bad idea to try it. When we do the next round of upgrades, that will be fully supported 
and the preferred method, because we see Internet Explorer fading away and Google 
Chrome being more of a standard now for internet usage.  
 
7 
 
12. Open Discussion 
None.  
 
13. Next Meeting:  June 12, 2020 – Alexandria Fire Hall 
Larson explained it is all going to be dependent on this pandemic and the recommendations 
on in-person physical locations, or if we are going to be doing electronic again.  
 
14. Adjournment  
Stearns County made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Douglas County seconded and the 
motion was carried unanimously at 11:54 a.m.  
 
Minutes recorded by Shari Gieseke. 
