 
 
 
Central MN Executive Committee 
Wednesday, June 10, 2020 – 11:00 AM 
Microsoft Teams Meeting Link 
Agenda 
 
1. 
Call to Order 
2. 
Roll Call  
 
 
3. 
Revisions and Approval of Agenda (P1) 
4.  
Approval of Minutes from March 25, 2020 (P2-8) 
 
5.  
Communications 
a. 2020 Training Scheduling (In-Person and TEAMS) (P9-37) 
b. Interop Consolidation Schedule (P38-39) 
c. Regional Interoperability Talkgroups Uplifted (P40) 
 
 
6.  
General Discussion: 
 
Regional Concerns 
d. Grants (View online) (Update)  
e. SECB Committees Appointments (Update) (P41) 
f. 2020 SUA Cost Allocations (P42-64) 
g. EMAC FFY2020 SHSP – Training & Exercise Regional Contractor (Action Required) 
h. Meeting Room Reservations – Douglas County 
i. Protocols for Virtual Meetings/Rules of Engagement (P65-78) 
j. Standard 8.10 (P79-83) 
            
7.  
Old Business:  
a. Committee Attendance (View online) 
b.  Website  
 
8.   
Upcoming Meetings 
a) July 29, 2020 – 11:00 a.m. (ESB Meeting) 
b) August 19, 2020 – 11:00 a.m. (After Final Budget Adoption Review) 
      
9. 
Adjournment 
 
1 
 
 
Central MN Executive Committee Meeting 
St. Cloud City Hall CR#1, 400 2nd ST S, St. Cloud, MN 
March 25, 2020 – 11:00 AM 
 
MEMBERS/ALTERNATES PRESENT: 
1. Jeff Jelinski – ESB Chair 
2. Steve Schmitt – ESB Vice Chair (via phone) 
3. Micah Myers – RAC Chair  
4. Kristen Lahr – O&O Chair (via phone) 
5. Brandon Larson – O&O Vice Chair and Logger Chair 
6. Paul McIntyre – Users Chair (via phone) 
7. Jason Karlgaard – NG911 Chair (via phone) 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 
The meeting was called to order by ESB Chair Jeff Jelinski at 11:00 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTIONS:  
Introductions were conducted. 
 
APPROVAL OF AGENDA:  
Schmitt made a motion to approve the agenda. Karlgaard seconded, motion carried.  
 
APPROVAL OF MINUTES: 
Larson made a motion to approve the minutes from March 4, 2020. Schmitt seconded, motion 
carried.  
 
COMMUNICATIONS: 
a. Coronavirus (COVID-19) 
Jelinski stated as far as the Executive Committee is concerned is there a reason that we need to 
meet? The next meeting is May 13th. As it is right now do we want to just hold May 13th open? Do 
we feel as though we need to have a meeting? And would we want to meet again on a phone 
conference? Lahr responded depending on how the other committees follow through with April 
meetings. The April O&O/User Committee meeting was already cancelled in anticipation of the 
Public Safety Conference which has also been cancelled. However, maybe just in case there is 
some sort of business that needs to be done we could just hold it on the calendar. Jelinski agreed to 
hold it on the calendar. Karlgaard agrees as well at least keep it on the calendar for now and maybe 
a little closer if there is not anything pertinent to discuss we could cancel it. Schmitt is in 
consensus. See also “Next Meeting.”  
 
GENERAL DISCUSSION: 
Regional Concerns 
 
A. Grants 
Subd.8.Emergency Communication Networks: Myers noted page #10 starts with the 
appropriations that was granted to ECN. ECN had $77,768,000 in their budget. The next page 
(page #11) lays out what those dollars are for. If you go back to this whole appropriations 
language. It is either through the tax fold, but a lot of the services that are listed here below 
are stemming from the 9-1-1 fees. Then it talks about the appropriations from the state 
special revenue fund for 9-1-1 emergency telecommunications services. This appropriation 
includes funds for information technology project and support subject to provisions of 
Minnesota Statutes.  
 
2 
 
GENERAL DISCUSSION: (Continued) 
Regional Concerns (Continued) 
 
A. Grants (Continued) 
Subd.8.Emergency Communication Networks 
(a) Public Safety Answering Points: Myers explained right here is the one that is key. 
Where they make reference to the 403.113 Statute which is in your packet. There are 
different viewpoints on how the funding from the 9-1-1 fees are supposed to be distributed.  
 
(c) ARMER Debt Service: The $23,261,000 is debt service that is issued on an annual basis 
to pay down the construction of the ARMER network. As this also talks about anything that 
was left that was not paid to the debt service was able for capital improvements. This is 
where some of the grant funding we have gotten has come from this. This number varies. 
Down here the one that is key is the $1,000,000 appropriation. Each year the biennium is 
where the basis of the SECB grant comes from. There are differences of opinion as to what is 
eligible expense through the grant process. Myers met with ECN last week and we went 
through this. It is their belief that if it is not tied to the confines of a 911 center, or the brick 
and mortar, that it is not eligible through the grant process.  
 
Investment Hierarchy – 2019 SECB Grant: Myers explained with that being said, in the 
packet is the Investment Hierarchy. The Grants Workgroup met earlier this week and we 
talked about the GIS component this is coming off as Priority 1. Priority 2 is standard 
Training & Interoperable Voice Communication Exercises and Planning Costs. There is 
going to be some clean-up to this language here. Priority 3 the Integration Costs or 
Enhancements. Priority 4 the Interoperability and operability Infrastructure. There is three. 
This is still viable. This is one we actually have in our infrastructure requests, the list we 
provide at all of our meetings. We have items that would be eligible in here. The question is 
the BDAs. ECN’s belief is BDAs are not eligible in this grant which we believe they are. 
There is further discussion that will come on the 2nd when this group gets back together as we 
do more research on this. Sites going on the air. What we put as our number 6 priority when 
we reorganized our grant priorities. Putting a site on air would still be eligible. We are going 
to submit with our grant. We are going to have to move the requests up. Swift County has a 
request in, but one of the things that it is going to come back to is the ability to pay. This has 
been a big discussion for the group. Where ECN looks at what they have in reserves from 
their 9-1-1 funding and says that is your ability to pay. Not taking into consideration if an 
agency is saving and have a plan to spend on a bigger project that it is going to take them a 
few years. They say you have to make a choice between which project you want. That is part 
of the reason why our CPE grant is being held up right now. They are looking at all of the 
members that are part of that grant, and what they have in reserves. Myers stated that is one 
thing to take into consideration when you are putting in these projects, that ECN is going to 
weigh back in on this looking at your ability to pay based on your reserve accounts. 
 
Prioritizing Capital and Other Spending Standard: This standard we made revisions to 
this back in 2018. The Grants Workgroup had some discussions with ECN. We made some 
changes to it. This is another item they are bringing up. It is ECN’s belief that grant 
applications have to go through all committees. Myers had said, no, if you read #5 
Recommended Procedure – Evaluation process #1 talks about how it goes through there, but 
if you look at #2 it also gives you latitude that you do not have to follow this directly if there 
is a timeliness or some other components to it. There is talk that this standard is going to be 
revised. Myers thinks the standard handles what we need to do currently. Myers wants to 
make our region aware of what is coming on this.   
 
 
 
3 
 
GENERAL DISCUSSION: (Continued) 
Regional Concerns (Continued) 
 
A. Grants (Continued) 
Minnesota Statutes 2019 – 403.11 and 403.113: Myers explained this basically just states 
where the special revenue or the 9-1-1 enhanced fee. This is where it makes the reference. 
This one does not really tell you that you can spend it on this. It makes a reference to the 
upcoming statute here. It talks about where it is collecting. It talks about the funding 
mechanism and how they allocate. Half of these monies goes to all the PSAPs equally. Then 
there is a city and how their allocation comes out of the county’s allocation. It talks about 
how the money is distributed and it talks about the items that can be used. One of the things 
we are looking at doing, and there is discussion from the group, as to when we redo the 
hierarchy making sure it aligns with this. And if it is deemed we cannot spend the monies like 
we had spent in the past, where what the SECB has granted authority to, because if you go 
back to January of 2015 that is when the SECB established the SECB grant program which 
talked about taking a million dollars, or whatever was available, out of the $2 million they 
get, basically by a million each year and it established the SECB grant program. It also 
established what they could spend it on. There was discussion as to they did this so the 
individual membership was not trying to go to the legislative to get their items there that they 
wanted to have. It does not vote well for them when you have said county coming to ask for 
things that the legislative looks at that we have already provided a funding mechanism for 
that. If that is not the case, then the discussion we had with ECN is looking at aligning these 
so there is clear direction as to how we can spend these funding. The recommendation was to 
look with the Steering Committee Chair, Finance Chair, and the Legislative Chair to sit down 
with Commissioner West to go through and say if we are not aligned with what we have in 
these State Statutes, then we make the provisions in the State Statues that we can fund it. But 
we have to define it. The other component coming out of this was what the Grants 
Workgroup is tasked with is if you go back to the Regional Quarterly we had in July of last 
year there was the discussion as to how the SHSP gets funded. Right now, we have dollars in 
there for training and then there was $50,000 out of that grant that was going to be a 
competitive grant. The reason why we got funded the amount we had was because there was 
no direction from ECN to HSEM as to what our needs were. That is another component that 
is coming up. We have to define what it is we are looking for assistance in, and they want us 
to put together a strategic plan. The region has done a strategic plan. We can update that. 
Some of the folks are going to make the ask for planning dollars depending on how this all 
shakes out to either create their strategic plan, or in our case, update the plan we have. There 
are a lot of things coming through there. Take a deep dive into these standards. 
 
Minnesota Statutes 2019 – 403.36: This is not per the grants. Currently, the Legislative 
Committee has an ask that is going to change the make-up of this board. This is something 
we need to watch, because they are adding another state position in the Indian Council, but 
they are not adding a greater MN and a Metro position which would change the balance of 
the SECB. The SECB was defined on a 1/3 State, 1/3 Metro and 1/3 Greater MN. The 
changes that are being proposed by ECN right now, that is not the case, they are going to 
affect the balance of power. That has not officially gone through yet, but it is there. There is a 
draft. Jelinski has a pain with that last statement: If we are playing in the sandbox right now 
equally, and if tomorrow this is changed to where we are not playing in the sandbox 
anymore, there is a good chance that the rules as we know them right now will not be those 
same rules. Myers replied you sat on the last Legislative call when Dana Wahlberg presented 
and no one said anything. Thankfully, they have not been able to get a hearing or anything on 
it. Myers has to go back and look from the SECB, Myers does not think SECB gave the 
authority for her to do this, but that would not be out of the norm because there are some 
things that are being done that are not following the governance.  
 
4 
 
GENERAL DISCUSSION: (Continued) 
Regional Concerns (Continued) 
 
A. Grants (Continued) 
Minnesota Statutes 2019 – 403.36: 
Myers added and that is one of the things that was mentioned in the letter from the MESB 
and we also talked about this grant process. This is part of why we are going through the 
grant process. There is a difference of opinions as to how this stuff is going. This is where we 
need to make sure that we need to do our due diligence and look at what is going on.  
 
Myers stated back to the grants, from the Committee Chairs looking at it, what is it that we 
are looking for, what is our priority? At the RAC we established our priority list. But, if 
BDAs are deemed not approved, then we need to look at it. Or, making the ask so that they 
are approved. At one point they were. But that was based on utilizing funding that was either 
in ECN’s eye funding that was coming from the debt service. The bonds that are issued and 
not paying on the debt service. Anything that was left over could be thrown in that we could 
assign out through a grant, or however the Commissioner of Public Safety saw fit to use. 
 
Larson asked typically when there is legislation changes being suggested, does that normally 
go to the Legislative Committee and they have to approve it and then it is approved by SECB 
before it gets pushed to Legislature? Myers replied it should. Jelinski questioned but does it? 
Myers stated with this round and there is a time table that is given. This is going to come 
back, because it is not going to get a hearing. By September, according to the timetable that 
was presented by Director Wahlberg, that if they are looking for changes it has to go this 
route. Myers has to confirm, Myers does not remember, but that does not mean it did not 
happen, this being brought to the SECB, the current language change she is looking to do on 
the 403 Statute. Larson’s recent recollection is that a lot of Legislative Committee meetings 
have been cancelled lately, this seems like a big deal to bring forth. Myers stated the meeting 
he just came out of, they are not even going to do bonding this year, is what we are 
anticipating. They are dealing with COVID-19 right now, they are going back into session 
tomorrow. They are going to be meeting one or two more times is what the Mayor’s 
anticipating, and they are just going to take care of this and we will not see a bonding bill in 
this session. Myers is not concerned with this going through on this session, but it needs to be 
addressed at the Legislative Committee, but the challenge is that committee does not ever 
meet. It is going back to where we were several years ago, where no one is voicing any 
concerns, or reaching out to the chair of that group. That group is going to cancel the 
meeting, because there are no business items to meet. Chair Jelinski thinks that part of that is 
you have to know what the issue is. The 1/3-1/3-1/3, and it is all of a sudden not, it could be 
changed to where it is not that same equal shares. Unless, it is actually conversed that way 
during a phone conference of the Legislative Committee, most nobody really gets it. Myers 
replied historical knowledge. Myers was going back and reading through the minutes on the 
Legislative that is what tripped him when he looked at the balance. If you look at the way it is 
laid out in the 403 Statute. If you read through the 403.36, this is key when you look at how it 
is worded right now. The board is comprised of 18 members. They put in these chairs of the 
Met Councils, State Patrol, DNR, State of MN, and then it goes down and talks about the 
elected officials. And also what made Myers think about this too is when we were going 
through the Bylaws. The Bylaws revision, and the Bylaws have not been approved yet. There 
were some changes to the Bylaws, but the Bylaws cannot trump state statute. This is where 
we need to make sure we are doing our due diligence. There is a reason why, they may not be 
meeting, but there is a reason why they are on there, and it is the make-up of this board. If 
you go to the January Legislative Committee packet, you will see the mark-up of the 
document and read Dana’s comments. You should pay attention to the changes as to her 
rationale behind the wording. It changes the scope of what the SECB is intended for.  
 
5 
 
GENERAL DISCUSSION: (Continued) 
Regional Concerns (Continued) 
 
A. Grants (Continued) 
Minnesota Statutes 2019 – 403.36: 
Myers explained if we are going to open up these statutes as they pertain to funding, we want 
to make sure they do not lose their intent. These are the other things you need to look at. Like 
where they have taken parts of the language, or changed it, looking at it in its whole going all 
the way back to the 2002 law. Which established, it changed the Metropolitan Emergency 
Services Board power was removed from them and put to the State Radio Board when it was 
crafted. Because the MESB had the authority to do it. In the construct of the ARMER, doing 
the history on it, legislation went in 2002 and then it continues to move forward. There has 
been some changes, but you have to go all the back to look at the intent. You cannot just read 
in one section of here. This is where Myers will meet with some folks from the MESB to go 
through it and make sure we are tracking on the same. If it is ruled that this is all we can 
spend it on, and that is what we have to work with, we cannot change that. This is part of the 
meeting with ECN last week. Myers is not going to go back and forth semantics on this. Here 
is what our need is, we need to define it. That is when the discussion came with having the 
Finance, Steering and the Legislative Chairs say we have identified our need assessment, 
now let us look at how we get it funded, or what the funding mechanism is and define it. And 
not define it so narrowly focused that someone looking at this 5-6 years down the road, well 
that is all it, no, it needs to have that high-level overview of what we are looking for and not 
painted specifically to one technology. The brick and mortar, or the confines of a PSAP, the 
ARMER, which they use. The ARMER is not per se in the PSAP, but it an integral part of the 
PSAP in communicating from the dispatch center to the officers. In-building coverage and 
where they are looking at is buildings we work in on a daily basis. Or, it says county 
buildings. One of the ones we have in our list is Alomere Health, that is a county-owned 
facility. So, they would be eligible. Now if it was a private sector, school districts, school 
buildings, all these different things where you put first responders in the building you need to 
be able to communicate. You can make the case for that. The language that says it has to be 
tied to the brick and mortar of a PSAP, that language needs to be changed as the technology. 
The other one is looking at the shared services we are doing for the Central Region’s CPE 
equipment. The core of it will be in one of our PSAPs, but what about the other 10 entities 
that are participating in it that are coming through a network access to that. Take a look at it, 
if there are any concerns in there let it be known.   
 
Myers explained we have a spreadsheet that our newly appointed chair of the Workgroup had 
put out. It is the one defining, there is going to be a master needs sheets that will show all of 
the regions. Each region is going to get tasked with providing what are your needs and 
looking at that Strategic Plan. We have most of what needs to be done on it to update it and 
provide it. A lot of that is going to be tied on what we can and cannot reach out for on the 
grants side. From the RAC and the O&O/Users, Myers would ask that your membership 
weigh in on what their needs are. Part of it is going to be hampered by the fact that we are 
trying to get the SECB and SHSP grants completed and out to the folks. Looking at long term 
provisioning what these grant programs are going to be able to cover. We need to come up 
with a long-term spending plan for what our region’s needs are. 
 
B. SECB Committees Appointments 
Larson reported stemming from the latest RAC meeting, we did have a volunteer to be the 
alternate for Wireless Broadband and Applications which is Mike Wisniewski. We still have 
a vacancy with NG911, however that will not require board action as their Bylaws state 
whomever is the Vice Chair becomes the representative for the state committee. With the 
representative list we are complete.  
 
6 
 
GENERAL DISCUSSION: (Continued) 
Regional Concerns (Continued) 
C. Training Provider Contract 
Page #2 (VII. Indemnification) is the only area of the contract with legal review that had a 
change very minor. There are some things Myers had Rey Freeman clean-up in the contract. 
Myers submitted it to our legal. They added, “defend and hold.” Myers spoke with Rey 
Freeman on this one and he had no problems with that and he said he would adhere to that. 
This contract has been reviewed by legal. We want to present this to the ESB at their meeting 
this afternoon to give you authority to sign off on it. Myers made the motion that we bring it 
forward to the ESB for approval. Schmitt seconded. Motion carried.  
 
D. 2020 SUA Cost Allocations 
Myers stated what was provided here from MnDOT you can see the different regions and 
Central’s allocation. This is what your anticipated SUA costs are going to be for this current 
year. You will be seeing the bills come from MnDOT. This should be the same, unless you 
added something, as what you paid the previous year. Next year is going to be the interesting 
one depending on what comes up with whoever negotiates the Motorola SUA contract.  
 
E. COMU Renewal for Scott MacKissock 
Lahr stated generally it is the O&O Committee that reviews COMU approvals and renewals. 
We did not meet in March and will not be meeting in April. We did not want to hold up this 
renewal for Scott MacKissock. We ask that it be added to the Executive Committee for 
review. There is not anything unusual per se about the renewal. He has all the paperwork in 
order here. We are just looking for a motion to approve this COMU renewal at the regional 
level so it can be moved onto the Statewide COMU Workgroup. Lahr made that motion. 
Myers seconded. Motion carried.  
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
A.  Committee Attendance 
  
No update.  
B.  Website 
Myers explained this is the ADA compliance, this is a memo Shari put together based on the 
recommendation from the ESB. This we are looking to send out with their billing. We just 
wanted to see if there was anything in here that you have any aversion to. One highlight here, 
we were looking at when do we have the meeting to discuss it. Typically, we had it at the 
ECN Conference which was cancelled. Looking at either through the next regional quarterly, 
that is not going to happen, so we will most likely end up with a webinar to discuss and have 
the other regions weigh in after they get the information. Jelinski agrees with that, this is 
something the ESB has said early on that we need to do this.  
 
NEXT MEETING: 
The next meeting will be May 13, 2020 at St. Cloud City Hall Conference Room #1.  
 
Myers stated in light of COVID, looking at if Roberts Rules allows for it, looking at if there are action 
items. There is one Myers got yesterday, Stevens County has their CRAE/SOAR project. It is a 
SOAR, it has to be updated to a CRAE and there is a process it has to go back up to the state for 
approval. The O&O would review. There is a letter that was provided from West Central 
Communication stating the process. Is it something you would have to have the full O&O, or is it just 
review, bless and move forward? Myers does not know, so he is looking at can we ask the ESB if we 
can call a special meeting via electronic meetings, send the documentation, they can review. It is just 
the only action item that you have on it. Call it, approve it and move it forward.  
 
 
7 
 
NEXT MEETING: (Continued) 
Myers explained in light of everything that is going with COVID, what is the timeliness, how soon do 
they need to have it? Myers will have to follow-up with Dona Greiner and Jim Stromberg.  
 
Myers added if you are not meeting until May would it be prudent for this group to review if we get 
together, meet and push it forward to the Board as the reviewing agency? We have to look at how we 
are currently doing business and do we have the legal means? Will we be violating Open Meeting 
Laws? Looking at our process for approving stuff. There are things that still have to get done. The 
meeting is just the approval portion of it. Can we modify our approval process through this COVID-
19 thing to keep business moving forward? Look for having discussion with the board. Do we want to 
ask them to look at our current process for handling business, can we modify that through the 
COVID-19?  
 
ADJORNMENT: 
Jeff Jelinski made the executive motion to adjourn the meeting and the motion was carried 
unanimously at 11:49 p.m.  
 
Minutes by Shari Gieseke. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposal to: 
 
Central Minnesota  
Emergency Services Board 
ATTN: CM Regional Coordinator 
For 
 
Consultation and Training Services 
 
 
February 26, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On Target Training & Consulting 
13517 Larkin Drive 
Minnetonka, MN 55305 
320-293-9011 
Rey.Freeman@ontargettc.com 
www.Ontargettc.com 
 
 
2 
 
March 2, 2020 
 
Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board 
Attention: CM Regional Coordinator 
400 – 2nd Street South 
St. Cloud, MN 56301 
 
Response to RFP and Proposal for Radio System Training Services 
 
Attn: CM Regional Coordinator 
On Target Training and Consulting (OTTC) welcomes the opportunity to present this proposal 
to the Central Region for ARMER radio training services. On Target was established in 2010, 
and has been the primary provider of ARMER radio system training services throughout the 
state of Minnesota since that time. As of October 2019 On Target is under new ownership, 
since the untimely passing of Tom Justin, the founder and original owner of On Target. 
However, little else has changed: The company continues forward with the same staff of 
training personnel, curriculum, and mission of providing quality individualized training services 
for public safety radio system users. Since the ownership change in October 2019, we have 
conducted several training classes for the Central, Northeast and Southeast Regions in 
Minnesota. All OTTC team members are currently employed or recently retired from public 
safety communications or related vendor services work.  
Provided in this proposal is a detailed response to the Region’s RFP requirements. On Target is 
fully capable of meeting or exceeding all of the Region’s ARMER training requirements.  
We appreciate the opportunity to continue our work with the public safety agencies in Minnesota.  
 
Regards 
Rey Freeman 
On Target Training and Consulting 
13517 Larkin Drive 
Minnetonka, MN 55305 
rfreeman@isd.net  
320-293-9011 Cell 
www.ontargettc.com  
 
 
3 
 
On Target Training and Consulting 
 
Proposal Table of Contents 
 
Section I: Requested Courses of Instruction .......................................................................... 4 
Section 2: Proposal Cover Page ............................................................................................. 5 
Section 3: Qualifications and Proposal Components 
.............................................................. 6 
A. Organizational Background ............................................................................................... 6 
B. Experience and Qualifications ........................................................................................... 6 
C. Capacity to Provide Service ............................................................................................... 7 
D. Training Content ................................................................................................................ 8 
A. Development of Training Work Plan ........................................................................... 9 
B. Development of Class Scope and Curriculum ............................................................. 9 
C. Training Phase ........................................................................................................... 10 
D. Training Scope ........................................................................................................... 11 
1. ARMER Dispatcher 
............................................................................................... 11 
2. ARMER Radio Trainer (Initial) .............................................................................. 13 
3. ARMER Radio Trainer (Refresher) ....................................................................... 15 
4. ARMER System Administrator ............................................................................. 16 
E. Budget and Cost Effectiveness ........................................................................................ 21 
F. References ....................................................................................................................... 22 
Appendix A: On Target Training Staff Biographies ...................................................................... 23 
Appendix B: List of On Target Training Services 
.......................................................................... 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
SECTION I – REQUESTED COURSES OF INSTRUCTION 
 
On Target Training and Consulting (OTTC) acknowledges the Central Region’s need for the 
following training courses:  
1. ARMER Dispatcher 
Time required: 8 hours 
2. ARMER Radio Trainer (Train the Trainer) Initial 
Time required: 8 to 16 hours 
3. ARMER Radio Trainer (Train the Trainer) Refresher 
Time required: 8 hours 
4. ARMER System Administrator (Level 2) 
Time required: 16-24 hours 
OTTC is fully qualified and proposes to provide all of the above-listed training services to the 
Central Region. A detailed description of the individual course training syllabus and other 
training details are provided in Section III of this proposal. OTTC also provides other ARMER 
radio and operational training courses in addition to the courses listed above, as shown in 
Appendix B.  
 
 
 
5 
 
SECTION II – PROPOSAL COVER PAGE 
Central MN Emergency Services Board 
Request for Professional Services 
 
Applicant Organization 
Federal ID Number / SSN 
On Target Training and Consulting 
84-3206021 
Street Address 
 
 
13517 Larkin Drive 
 
 
City 
State 
Zip code 
Minnetonka 
MN 
55305 
Printed Name 
Title of Applicant’s Authorized Representative 
Rey Freeman 
Owner, On Target Training and Consulting 
Telephone Number 
 
320-293-9011 (Pri); 952-541-0747 (Alt) 
 
E-mail Address 
Website 
Rey.Freeman@ontargettc.com 
www.ontargettc.com  
 
Certification 
I certify that: 
a) I have been authorized to submit and sign this proposal on behalf of the submitting organization; 
b) that the quote is accurate and true to the best of my knowledge, the costs are reasonable and 
necessary for the proposed services; 
c) the proposed costs do not duplicate other funds already available, or which may become available, 
to pay the projected costs; 
d) my organization will implement the services in compliance with the stipulations and guidelines set 
forth by Central MN Emergency Services Board; and 
e) the organization that I represent is an equal opportunity employer/provider. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2-28-2020 
 
 
Authorized Signature 
 
Date 
 
6 
 
SECTION III – QUALIFICATIONS and PROPOSAL COMPONENTS 
Introduction 
On Target Training & Consulting (OTTC) understands that the Central Minnesota Emergency 
Services Board (CMESB) is requesting a training program designed to provide a standardized 
professional level of training services for the city, county and other public safety agency 
personnel who utilize the State of Minnesota ARMER radio system throughout the Central 
Region.  
The OTTC staff provides the greatest level of experience of any group within the state, and has 
provided ARMER system radio training to most of the agencies and entities within the Central 
and other Regions over the past several years. Our team is familiar with the concepts and 
objectives that the State of Minnesota and the Central Region are attempting to attain in 
regards to interoperable communications, and standardization of a level of radio user and 
trainer knowledge. All OTTC training meets or exceeds the Standards established by the 
Minnesota SECB for ARMER system training requirements. 
In addition to the specific training sessions requested in this proposal, OTTC is willing to 
provide additional training as requested and agreed upon by both parties. All direct and 
indirect costs are included in this proposal. 
A. Organization Background 
On Target was established in 2010, and has been the primary provider of ARMER radio 
system training services throughout the state since that time. As of October 2019 On 
Target is under new ownership, since the untimely passing of Tom Justin, the founder and 
original owner of On Target. However, little else has changed: The company continues 
forward with the same staff of training personnel, curriculum, and mission of providing 
quality individualized training services for public safety radio system users. All OTTC team 
members are currently employed or recently retired from public safety communications or 
vendor services work.  
B. Experience and Qualifications 
When the Minnesota ARMER radio network began to expand outstate from the Metro, St. 
Cloud and Rochester corridors in the late 2000’s, On Target founder Tom Justin recognized 
the need for detailed and agency-specific training services. As a lieutenant for the City of St. 
Cloud police department, Tom was acutely aware of the criticality of public safety 
communications; he recognized first-hand the challenges faced by personnel learning to 
use a new and complex radio network.  
His vision was to establish a company which could provide high-level training services that 
were specifically tailored to the individual agencies. This need was confirmed after 
customers’ experience with radio vendor-based training options, which were often rather 
generic and equipment/feature-specific, without consideration of the agencies’ specific 
operational requirements.  
Mr. Justin proceeded to assemble a team of individuals from various agencies and vendors 
around the state who were actively involved in the public safety communications industry, 
7 
 
with good training and presentation skills and interested in working with other agencies 
and personnel to develop client-specific training programs. Tom was also one of the 
primary team members involved in planning and conducting the training sessions with 
customer agencies.  
Since that time there have been some changes in the On Target staff, most noticeably the 
passing of Tom in July 2019. However, his team of training personnel felt the need to 
continue this work and with the new ownership of the company in October 2019 are able 
to do so. Refer to Section C of this proposal and Appendix A for a list of the current OTTC 
training staff.  
These individuals had worked with Tom to develop the numerous training courses and 
programs being offered to customer agencies. The On Target team has provided these 
classes to thousands of agency personnel through hundreds of classes taught of during the 
company’s time in business. These classes have been presented for all Regions in 
Minnesota, and are now also being conducted for agencies in Iowa as they migrate to the 
new ISICS statewide radio network. The OTTC team has also presented training courses at 
the annual Minnesota Interoperable Communications Conference.  
POST certification: OTTC will provide POST certificates for any classes deemed eligible.  
The courses and curriculum developed by the OTTC staff have become the standard for 
radio user training in the upper Midwest region. Refer to Appendix B for a list of the 
training courses available from OTTC. 
C. Capacity to Provide Service 
The On Target training team currently includes the following personnel:  
 Dave Theis 
 Steve Olson 
 Rowan Watkins 
 Jason Matthias 
 Randy Donahue 
 Dave Pike 
Refer to Appendix A for the biographies of the OTTC training staff.  
All of these individuals are currently actively employed in the public communications 
industry, or recently retired from the communications industry. OTTC has other personnel 
available to assist with training services on an as-needed basis.  
Training materials are provided to all class students electronically via USB “memory stick”.  
Expectations (from RFP): On Target Training acknowledges and meets the following 
requirements as identified in the Region’s RFP:  
 The instructor/awardee will provide:  
1. Detailed syllabus for each class 
2. Comprehensive list of all instructors to include biographies 
3. Electronic Copy of class information 
8 
 
 The CM Emergency Services Board Region will provide: 
1. Location (for classes) 
2. Date(s) for classes 
3. Coordinate the logistics with the approved instructor(s) 
4. Online registration (for classes) 
Minimum Requirements of Approved Instructors: On Target Training hereby verifies that 
all instructors meet and/or exceed the following requirements as stated in the Region’s 
RFP:  
 Possession of a valid Minnesota Driver’s License and reliable transportation 
 Experience in class and curriculum development, implementation of best practices 
policy and procedure, and in-depth knowledge of the Minnesota ARMER radio 
system and other Department of Public Safety initiatives 
Insurance Requirements: On Target Training hereby verifies that the company meets or 
exceeds the following Insurance requirements and values set forth in the Region’s RFP:  
 Worker’s Compensation 
 Commercial General Liability  
 Automobile 
 Professional Liability 
Compensation (for Training Services): The pricing of these Training Services included in this 
proposal by On Target Training to the Central Region (Section E) are structured as a “not to 
exceed” as required in the Region’s RFP.  
Background Investigation: On Target Training understands and accepts the requirement as 
set forth in the Region’s RFP that all company staff members involved in providing training 
services to the Region via this process may be subject to a detailed background 
investigation prior to the approval of providing such training services.  
 
D. Training Content 
On Target Training and Consulting is qualified and available to provide all of the training 
classes and services identified in Section 1 this RFP.  
OTTC utilizes a similar planning and development approach for all required courses:  
1. ARMER Dispatcher  
2. ARMER Radio Trainer (Initial) 
3. ARMER Radio Trainer (Refresher) 
4. ARMER System Administrator (Level 2) 
This work plan is structured as follows:  
 
 
 
9 
 
A. Development of Training Work Plan 
OTTC proposes to complete the requested services in phases. During this phase the 
CMESB will be expected to provide the following: 
 Designate a single point of contact/Project Leader 
 Identify and designate entity representatives to attend the training. 
 Arrange logistics and administrative support for training. 
Based on OTTC’s previous work with the CMESB, we have developed this proposal work 
plan in consideration of the following assumptions:  
 All Training will be conducted in 2020 calendar year. 
 CMESB Region personnel receive priority in attendance; however, open class 
space may be filled by other defined radio region personnel. 
 Training scheduled will be conducted no matter attendance count or weather. 
 Logistics such as registration for courses, posting of training sessions, 
regional administrative paperwork, class rosters, evaluations, etc. will be 
the responsibility of the Project Leader. 
OTTC will determine the specific training staff to conduct the class, and submit to the 
CMESB a minimum of 1 month prior to the class date(s) to allow for announcement to 
interested agencies and staff.  
B. Development of Class Scope and Curriculum 
OTTC has previously developed Training Plan documents containing the training 
syllabus/course outline and general planning elements on which the training is 
developed and conducted. OTTC staff will review the current training requirements 
for the Central Region to ensure that all materials are up to date and meet the 
Region’s education needs.  
The State of Minnesota ARMER Standards, upon which this training is structured, 
along with local and regional requirements, will be reviewed for any changes which 
may need to be incorporated into the training materials prior to class sessions. Policy, 
procedure, and governance issues are not static; training materials must continually 
evolve based on the above mentioned information. 
OTTC anticipates the utilization of some training materials already created for the 
CMESB as well as materials developed, created, collected, produced and owned by 
OTTC. In addition, OTTC will utilize materials already produced for utilization by 
ARMER system users. 
OTTC understand that the individual entities involved in this training may not be 
utilizing the same manufacturer standardized equipment. It is assumed that not every 
individual entity’s equipment is identically programmed. Therefore, OTTC will build 
and update the curriculum used to conduct this training to meet the general 
characteristics and features of the ARMER system during the duration of this proposal. 
 
 
 
10 
 
OTTC anticipates state and regional compliance with standardization in policy, 
procedure and functional operational aspects of equipment utilized on the ARMER 
system; however, it is assumed that not every entities policies and/or procedures will 
be the same. 
* The training materials developed and delivered by OTTC shall be considered a 
product produced by OTTC. The materials cannot be modified, used, copied, sold, 
provided for resale, provided for profit in anyway, or distributed without the 
written consent of OTTC. 
 
C. Training Phase 
OTTC utilizes a multi-discipline team approach to accomplish training objectives 
through adult learning concepts. Active student participation should be considered 
mandatory. OTTC believes this training approach lends itself to the most realistic 
training and educational opportunity available in a non-active, non-operational 
environment. OTTC will provide qualified staff to accomplish the training objectives. 
OTTC and the CMESB will establish a mutually agreeable timeline for training after 
discussions with the Project Leader. 
OTTC verifies successful training through both live interactions and physical 
manipulation processes. As with any training, it is understood that information 
retention is in part based on the amount of time between receiving and utilization of 
the information/training provided. 
Due to the inherent complexities associated with the utilization of the ARMER 
system, student level of familiarity, standardization and competence desired of 
personnel when utilizing the ARMER radio system, OTTC reserves the right to modify 
any training timelines if, based on the professional opinion of OTTC staff, a 
modification is necessary to provide for the best possible training and educational 
opportunity available. 
Class sizes: It is important to property manage the number of students attending the 
classes, so as to allow the appropriate level of interaction and attention between the 
instructors and students. However, not all classes have the same requirements. For 
example, when teaching the MCC7500 Dispatch console class, it is best to somewhat 
limit class size and allow access to a live radio console. Other classes such as the Train 
the Trainer sessions can be much larger, but at the same time need to allow sufficient 
time for each student to “present back” to the group an example of the radio 
features and functions just learned, which ensures that the student is capable of 
teaching others later on. OTTC staff will work with the Region’s project managers to 
establish class sizes for each topic being taught.  
This training will provide sufficient education of each of the specific session’s facets 
to allow for a level of understanding of the personnel trained on the general 
processes, standards, characteristics and procedures of the ARMER system. 
 
 
 
11 
 
OTTC’s general stipulations on number of attendees at any training sessions include: 
 PSAP Personnel training is limited to no more than 12 students in any one 
session, and no more than 4 personnel per any console  
 Trainer training and trainer refresher sessions are limited to no more than 20 
students per session. 
 System Admin training is limited to no more than 14 students per session 
OTTC will provide training in consecutive day/consecutive shift patterns when 
considered appropriate or necessary. 
During the training phase, the CM Project Leader or designee(s) will provide the 
following: 
 Suitable classroom space with coverage to the radio system 
 Training items necessary to conduct the training classes to include power point 
projector, internet connectivity, white board with writing utensils, student 
manuals, etc. 
 Functional programmed portable radios (as appropriate) 
 Functional consoles connected to the ARMER system (as appropriate) 
 Refreshments and amenities as deemed appropriate 
 Students familiar with adult learning concepts 
 Students trained or familiar with NIMS/ICS concepts* 
* All students should have completed basic NIMS courses. OTTC can provide NIMS 
training if requested or required but is not included within this proposal. 
 
D. Training Scope for Required Classes 
OTTC provides training based on the general characteristics of the ARMER trunked 
radio system concepts and functionality, including subscriber affiliation and system 
functionality. ARMER is a Motorola system, and such items as scanning, priority 
talkgroup traffic, duplex operations, etc. are based on Motorola product 
functionality. Personnel attending will have an understanding of the basic 
characteristics of equipment operations based on utilization of Motorola equipment 
and system connected PSAP consoles. All entities are required to utilize only State 
Radio Board and Regional Radio Board approved and authorized equipment. 
 
1. ARMER Dispatcher 
 Time required: 8 hours 
RFP Requirements: “8 hour course of instruction for designated regional PSAP 
personnel on the ARMER radio system.  Training shall provide students sufficient 
education and training to allow for a basic level of understanding of the general 
processes, standards, and procedures of the ARMER system as they relate to 
PSAP functionality, interoperability, and incident command principles, as well as 
hands-on functionality of the MCC 7500 console.  
 
12 
 
The training will also provide valuable insight on topics such as the status of 
ARMER, “dispatch” best practices, SECB standards, as well as interoperability on 
a trunked radio system.” 
 On Target’s proposal and course curriculum meet these requirements, via the 
outline provided below.   
OTTC Syllabus/Outline of course:  
A. ARMER System Overview        
 Statewide and regional build-out  
 Progress to date 
 System Updates 
B. 800 MHz Digital Trunked Radio System 
 
 
 Trunking 101 
 Coverage maps 
 Reliability and redundancy 
 System failures 
 Talkgroups 
 Governance 
 Naming conventions 
 Trunked resource allocation 
 Conventional resource allocation 
 Interoperability issues 
 Policies and procedures 
 NIMS/ICS concepts  
C. Console Operations  
 Trunked Resources 
 Talk Group priority elevation 
 Repeat Inhibit 
 Encrypted/Clear modes 
 Paging and Civil Defense Sirens 
 Multi-select 
 Patching 
 Emergency acknowledgement/Knock down 
 AUX I/O 
 All Mute 
 Activity Log 
 Alert Tones 
 Private Call 
 General/Quick transmit functions 
 System Status 
 Safety Switch 
 
 
13 
 
D. Scenario-based Exercises  
 
 
 
 
 
       
 Normal operations 
 Critical incidents 
E. Portable and Mobile Radio Operation 
 
 Radio features and general operations 
 Scan and Emergency 
 Button and switch functions 
 Menu items 
 RSSI indicators 
F. Course Prerequisites 
 
PSAP Personnel 
Training & MCC 
7500/7100 
Console 
ICS 700 
ICS 800 
Radio 101 
History of ARMER  
Interoperability 101  
Status Board 2.0 End User 
MCC 7500 Dispatch Console Part 1 & 2  
Dispatcher Training 
ARMER Control Station Technology  
Interoperability  
2. ARMER Radio Trainer (Train the Trainer) Initial 
 Time required: 8 to 16 hours 
RFP Requirements: “Course Deliverables: Training presentation to be provided to 
attendees for their use in delivering ARMER training. 1 or 2 Day ARMER end user 
trainer course of instruction with the intent of certification of individuals to 
deliver ARMER End User Training.  Training shall be designed to cover the 
ARMER system, including basic characteristics and functionality.  The instruction 
will also include subscriber functionality on the system.” 
 On Target’s proposal and course curriculum meet these requirements, via the 
outline provided below.   
Syllabus/Outline of course:  
A. ARMER System Overview        
 History, concepts and governance 
 Statewide and regional build-out  
 Progress to date 
 APCO Standards 
B. 800 MHz Digital Trunked Radio System 
 
 
 Radio 101, P25 Trunking 101 (recap) 
 Coverage maps 
14 
 
 Reliability and redundancy 
 System failures 
 Fleet map design and layout 
 Talk groups 
 Governance 
 Naming conventions 
 Trunked resource allocation 
 Conventional resource allocation 
 Interoperability issues 
 Policies and procedures 
 NIMS/ICS concepts  
C. Portable and Mobile Radio Operation 
 
 Radio features 
 Radio Operations 
 Scan 
 Emergency 
 Button and switch functions 
 Menu items 
 RSSI indicators 
 Accessories 
 Basic operations 
 Advanced features 
 Maintenance 
 Dispatcher console operations    
D. Scenario-based Exercises  
 
 
 
 
 
       
 Normal operations 
 Critical incidents 
 Table top exercise 
 Training for new trainers; basic introduction to perform effective training 
 Class Participants lead training exercise 
E. Effective Presentations 
 Students are required to “reteach” various topics back to their peer group 
to ensure good understanding of the subject matter, as well as verify their 
capabilities and comfort level with the instruction process 
F. Course Prerequisites 
 
Trainer Training  
(Initial) 
ICS 700 
ICS 800 
Radio 101, Trunking 101 
History of ARMER 
Interoperability 101 
 
 
 
15 
 
3. ARMER Radio Trainer (Train the Trainer) Refresher 
Time required: 8 hours 
RFP Requirements: “Up to date Training Presentation to be provided to 
attendees for their use in delivering ARMER training. 1-Day ARMER end user 
trainer refresher course of instruction.  Training is designed to update the trainer 
on the ARMER system, including basic characteristics and functionality.  The 
instruction will also include, trainer networking including trainer learning 
objectives question and answer session.” 
 On Target’s proposal and course curriculum meet these requirements, via the 
outline provided below.   
Syllabus/Outline of course:  
A. ARMER System Overview        
 History and governance updates 
 Statewide and regional updates 
B. 800 MHz Digital Trunked Radio System 
 
 
 Trunking 101 
 Coverage maps 
 Reliability and redundancy 
 System failures 
 Talkgroups 
 Governance 
 Naming conventions 
 Trunked resource allocation 
 Conventional resource allocation 
 Interoperability issues 
 Policies and procedures 
 NIMS/ICS concepts  
C. Portable and Mobile Radio Operation 
 
 Radio features 
 Radio Operations 
 Scan 
 Emergency 
 Button and switch functions 
 Menu items 
 RSSI indicators 
 Accessories 
 Basic operations 
 Advanced features 
 Maintenance 
 Dispatcher console operations    
 
 
 
16 
 
D. Scenario-based Exercises  
 
 
 
 
 
       
 Normal operations 
 Critical incidents 
 Table top exercises 
 
 
 
E. Course Prerequisites 
 
Trainer Training 
(Refresher) 
ICS 700 
ICS 800 
Radio 101 
History of ARMER  
Interoperability 101 
4. ARMER System Administrator (Level 2) 
Time required: 16-24 hours 
RFP Requirements: “System Administration Training is for individuals who have 
yet to be trained for ARMER system administration tasks and those who desire 
refresher training.  Both classroom and hands-on system administration 
functions will be utilized to accomplish training objectives.” 
 On Target’s proposal and course curriculum meet these requirements, via the 
outline provided below.   
A. ARMER Trunking 101 
 Smartzone 
 Omnilink 
 Basic system diagrams and hardware components 
B. Radio Calls 
a) Call Processing 
i) Talkgroup 
ii) Multigroup 
iii) Agencygroup 
iv) Emergency 
(1) Tactical 
(2) Revert 
(3) Ruthless Preemption 
(4) Top of Queue 
v) Private Call 
vi) Telephone Interconnect 
C. Encryption 
a. Modes 
b. Operation 
c. Common Key Reference 
d. Key Variable Loader (KVL) Operations 
 
 
17 
 
D. Scanning 
a. Priority Monitor  
b. Requested Sites 
c. Conventional Scan 
d. Talkgroup Scan 
e. Intelligent Priority 
E. Call Alert vs Private Call 
F. Roaming 
a. Call Priority Levels 
G. Basic MCC7500 Console Functionality 
a. Talkgroup/Multigroup  Operations 
b. Emergency Modes 
c. Console Priority 
d. Talk Over 
e. Talk Under 
f. Audio Interrupt 
g. Audio Patch Operation 
H. Logging 
a. IP vs. Analog “Recorder vs. Logger” 
b. Configuration 
c. Archiving Interface Server 
d. Firewalls 
I. MCC7500E Consoles 
a. Setup and Configuration 
b. Hardware 
c. AIM vs. USB 
d. Peripherals 
e. IRNI vs ORNI 
f. PM setup  
g. Networks 
J. Private Radio Network Manager Overview 
a. Hardware/Software Requirements 
b. PC Running Windows 10 
c. Network connection on RNI 
d. ARMER Allowable Hardware and use policy  
e. Standards 
K. ARMER System ID and WACN  
L. ARMER Naming Conventions 
 
 
18 
 
M. Motorola PRNM Suite of Applications 
a. Provisioning Manager 
b. System Historical Reports 
c. Affiliation Display 
d. ATIA Log Viewer 
e. Dynamic Reports 
f. Zone Historical Reports 
g. Radio Control Manager (RCM) Reports 
h. Radio Control Manager (RCM) 
i. Radio Commands 
ii. Dynamic Regrouping and Storm Plans 
iii. Radio Checks 
iv. Monitoring Status and Events 
v. Inhibiting Radios 
vi. Selector Locking Radios 
vii. Passive Mode 
viii. Zonewatch 
i. Unified Event Manager (UEM) 
j. License Manager 
N. Provisioning Manager 
a. Security Group Structure 
b. System Partitioning 
i. Login process 
ii. Logout Process 
iii. Creating and Applying Search Filters 
iv. Exporting List Views 
v. Sorting Views 
vi. Profiles 
vii. Usage 
viii. Applications 
ix. Distributing Changes 
1. Status indication 
x. Jobs view 
c. Talkgroup Configuration 
i. Add/Edit/Delete 
ii. TG/MG Capabilities Profile configuration 
iii. TG/MG Site Access Profiles 
d. Multigroup Configuration 
i. Add/Edit/Delete 
e. Agencygroup Configuration 
i. Add/Edit/Delete 
f. Trunked Subscriber  Configuration  
i. Add/Edit/Delete a Radio 
 
 
19 
 
g. Site Access Denial Methods 
i. Talkgroup 
ii. Radio 
iii. Both 
h. Batch Operations 
i. Radio Capabilities Profiles 
j. Radio Site Access Profiles 
k. Encryption and CKR usage 
l. Conventional Subscriber Configuration 
i. MDC and ASTRO Conventional 
1. Add/Edit/Delete  
2. Alias 
3. IDs 
m. MCC7500 Console Systems 
i. Operator Position Definitions/Parameters 
ii. Modifying Console position fields 
iii. Adding Security Group Objects 
iv. Console TG/MG Capability Profiles 
v. Console User Capability Profiles 
vi. Encryption 
n. CKR Structure 
i. Encryption Algorithms 
ii. System/Regional/Local  
iii. Assignment to Resources 
iv. Loading Keys in VPMs 
o. Paging 
i. Add/Edit/Delete 
ii. Changing page names  
iii. Changing page codes 
p. Group Pages 
q. Individual Pages 
r. Timing 
s. Pre-programmed pages; assigning page objects to channels 
t. Auxiliary Input/Outputs (AUX I/Os) 
i. Add/Edit/Delete 
ii. Aux I/O Server 
iii. Aux I/O Ports 
iv. Change Names 
v. Aux I/O Interlocked  Groups 
u. Backup Dispatch Site Controller 
 
 
20 
 
v. Conventional Resource Channels 
i. CCGWs; What are they and do I have any? 
ii. 3 Types 
iii. Add/Edit/Delete 
iv. ARMER System requirements 
v. Changing Names of Conventional Channels 
vi. CCGW Port assignment Structure 
w. Storm Plans 
O. License Manager 
a. Viewing Inventory 
b. Viewing Logged in Users 
c. Force Releasing Session Licenses from Other Users 
P. Unified Event Manager (UEM) 
a. Overview 
b. Logging in 
c. Viewing Status 
d. Console Devices 
e. Alarms Only displayed when active 
f. Events-always displayed 
g. Sending Commands 
Q. Management Software 
a. Configuration Service Software (CSS) 
b. Installation and Usage 
c. CSS into a VPM 
d. CSS into a repeater 
e. View logs 
f. View status 
R. Software Download Manager (SWDL) 
a. Installation and Usage 
S. Basic Network Troubleshooting 
a. IP scheme 
b. Consoles: 10.zone#.site#.device 
c. Repeaters: 10.100+zone#.site#.device 
d. Telnet 
e. Viewing Links status using “sh wanc” 
f. View Ethernet status using “sh -sys stat -pa 
g. Ping 
i. Difference between “Request Timed Out” and “Destination 
Unreachable” 
ii. Determine what Device is being Pinged with “-a” 
 
 
 
21 
 
T. Course Prerequisites 
 
System Administer 
(PRM) Training 
Radio 101 
History of ARMER 
Interoperability 101 
Dispatch Application Part 1 & 2 
 
E. Budget and Cost Effectiveness 
All training services are proposed as a fixed-price cost to the Region, regardless of class 
attendance (as was OTTC previous policy for the Region).  The pricing for the individual 
classes are provided below. Travel expenses are included in these costs.  
 
Session Name 
Session Time 
Pricing 
Trainer Training (Initial) 
16 hours 
(2 days) 
$4,500 
Trainer Training 
(Refresher) 
8 hours (1 day) 
$2,300 
PSAP Personnel Training 
8 hours (1 day) 
$2,400 
ARMER Level 2 System 
Administration 
16 – 24 hours 
$9,500 
 
Note: Previous OTTC proposals had included a separate line item for the development of 
curriculum for these classes. The current pricing for the Central Region has this work 
incorporated into the class fees identified above.  
 
Additional training and consulting services: Other services outside the scope of the work 
identified in this RFP will be priced based on specific customer needs. OTTC’s standard rate 
is $150 per hour plus usual travel expenses.  
 
 
22 
 
F. References 
On Target Training and Consulting has provided training classes and programs for all 
Regions within the State of Minnesota. Some of the most recent entities to receive services 
from OTTC are as follows:  
1. Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board  
Attn: Micah Meyers 
400 – 2nd Street South 
St. Cloud, MN 56301 
320-650-3365 
Micah.Myers@ci.stcloud.mn.us 
Recent (2019) Services provided:  
 Tactical Dispatcher Training 
 ARMER Level 2 System Administration 
 ARMER Radio End-User Train-the-Trainer (Initial) 
 ARMER Radio End-User Train-the-Trainer (Refresher) 
 ARMER APX CPS Radio Programmer Training 
2. Northeast Minnesota Emergency Services Board 
Attn: Dewey Johnson 
St. Louis County MN 
100 N. 5th Ave. W.  
Duluth, MN 55802 
218-726-2936 
JohnsonD@StLouisCountyMN.gov 
Recent (2019) Services provided:  
 ARMER Radio End-User Train-the-Trainer (Initial) 
 PSAP Dispatch Personnel Training (Refresher) 
3. Southeast Minnesota Emergency Services Board 
Attn: Rich Hall 
Freeborn County Emergency Management 
411 Broadway South 
Albert Lea, MN 56007 
507-320-0146 
Rich.hall@co.freeborn.mn.us 
Recent (2019) Services provided:  
 ARMER Radio End-User Train-the-Trainer (Initial) 
 PSAP Dispatch Personnel Training (Refresher) 
 ICS Communications Workshop  
 
On Target Training & Consulting 
 
23 
Appendix A 
On Target Training Staff Biographies 
Steve Olson 
Steve began working on the migration of all Lake County Law 
Enforcement, EMS and Fire Services toward the Minnesota ARMER radio 
system in 2010. During the ARMER migration, his duties included 
representing the Lake County SO and the Northeast Region of 
Minnesota in various committees including the Northeast Owners and 
Operators, the Northeast Emergency Services Board and the Statewide 
NextGen 911 committee. 
Steve is currently the Jail Administrator/PSAP Manager and ARMER Local 
System Administrator for the Lake County Sheriff’s Office. As the Local System Administrator, 
Steve is responsible for the maintenance and programming of all 600 ARMER Radio System 
Subscribers/Radios in Lake County as well as the training of 20 local entities personnel on 
ARMER System and subscriber funct1onallty. In addition to the ARMER 800 MHZ digital 
subscribers, Steve is also maintaining and programming narrow band VHF radios for 3 local 
entities. 
Steve's training includes Communications Unit Leader, Communications Unit Technician, 
Communications Center Manager and Incident Tactical Dispatcher. He has served as COML for 
two full scale Coast Guard exercises including Operation Down Under in the summer of 2011 
and Operation Peeking Duck in the summer of 2013. He has received formal training as a 
Communications Unit Leader instructor at the Emergency Management Institute in 
Emmetsburg, Maryland. 
 
 
 
On Target Training & Consulting 
 
24 
On Target Training Staff Biographies 
David Theis 
David Theis is a recently-retired Senior Systems Technologist with 
Motorola Solutions, a worldwide communications and electronics 
corporation based in Chicago, IL. David had been employed by 
Motorola for 37 years serving in several roles ranging from a Field 
Technical Representative, Systems Integration Manager, Systems 
Engineer, and Systems Technologist. In his most recent role as a 
Systems Technologist, David was responsible for integrating local, 
regional, and statewide communications system solutions for public 
safety users and utility customers throughout the United States.   
He has been the primary Motorola Systems Technologist for ARMER since the system's 
inception in 2003. He was also the lead System Technologist for the South Dakota Statewide 
Radio system, the ORION system in Omaha Nebraska, plus many other ASTRO P25 systems. 
Over his career, David has also been tasked to provide radio subscriber, console, and network 
training to service shops as well as customers.  He currently is the Radio System Administrator 
for the University of Minnesota. 
His work-related history includes 8 years in the United States Air Force, 5 years with 
Northwestern Bell, and Motorola. David has a degree from DeVry Institute of Technology in 
Technical Management with emphasis in Information Technology. He is CompTIA certified in 
networks, desktop hardware, and network security. He holds a General Class FCC license with 
Radar endorsement and Technician Class Amateur Radio License.  
 
 
 
On Target Training & Consulting 
 
25 
On Target Training Staff Biographies 
Rowan Watkins 
Rowan Watkins is currently the Radio Communications Analyst for 
Cook County, Minnesota working in the MIS Department. Rowan has 
been with Cook County since 2012 as his role of Radio 
Communications Analyst. He is responsible for managing all aspects 
of radio communication projects for Cook County including 
identifying business needs, assessing impacts, estimating and 
managing schedules and budgets, ensuring appropriateness of 
technical specifications. His work also includes managing resources 
of contractors and consultants, communication and training to affected stakeholders, and 
defining future operational processes. 
Additionally, Rowan provides oversight and management of all contracts and agreements 
involving county owned communication towers and equipment. Rowan also functions as the 
Cook County ARMER Local System Administrator, in which he is responsible for all County LMR 
assets as well as for all agencies and entities operating under the Cook County ARMER 
participation plan. Entities included in the Plan are nine fire departments, three ambulance 
services, the Cook County Sheriff's Office, Cook County Search & Rescue, and multiple public 
service entities. Rowan has completed training courses for Radio System Administration, Radio 
Programming and Template Building, MCC 7000 Series Dispatch Consoles, and is a 
Communications Unit Technician (COMT). 
 
 
 
On Target Training & Consulting 
 
26 
On Target Training Staff Biographies 
Randy Donahue 
Raised in Southwest Minnesota, Randy graduated from Brewster 
Public School, served in the US Air Force, and went on to earn his BA 
Degree from Buena Vista University majoring in Criminal Justice and 
Agency Administration. During his 34-year Law enforcement career 
he received specialized training in computer science, electronics, 
identity theft, and computer forensics. Randy completed the Texas 
State Police Academy m 1984 and worked as a Deputy Sheriff with the 
Navarro County Sheriff’s Office in Texas. Randy's professional 
experience includes working in corporate security with Bally Gaming, serving with the 
Humboldt City Police Department in Iowa, and Federal Protective Service in Iowa and Nevada. 
Randy completed his law enforcement career as the Chief Deputy for the Murray County 
Sheriff’s Office in Minnesota where his duties included oversight of the counties migration to 
the State of Minnesota P25 ARMER radio system. Randy was also a member of the MN State 
Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force, Southwest Emergency Services Board 
representative to the Minnesota State Operations and Technical Committee, MN High Tech 
Crime Investigators Association, National White-Collar Crime Center, and the Minnesota 
Sheriff’s Association.  He is also active as a Federal and State licensed exotic animal dealer. 
Randy is active as a consultant to law enforcement agencies on a wide variety of topics, and has 
instructed classes on high-tech crime, public safety communications, exotic animal safety, and 
many other law enforcement related topics. Randy is an FCC licensed Extra Class Amateur radio 
operator and an NRA Certified Firearms Instructor. 
On Target Training & Consulting 
 
27 
 
On Target Training Staff Biographies 
Jason Matthias 
Jason Matthias began his career in Emergency Communications 
during his first semester of college as a part-time dispatcher with 
the Ashland (WI) Police Department in 1996. In 1999, after 
graduating from Northland College with a major in Sociology, he 
accepted a full-time position with the Ashland Co Sheriff’s Office 
where he helped build their first CAD system as well as develop a 
comprehensive communications training program. In 2003 Jason 
started his employment with the St. Louis County (SLC) 911 Center 
as an Emergency Communications Specialist (ECS). In 2011 Jason 
was promoted to a Lead ECS where he assisted in administering a 5-county CAD system as well 
as train communications staff and end-users during SLC’s transition to the ARMER system. 
Currently Jason is one of three Assistant Center Supervisors in the 911 Division where he 
oversees the continuing education, policy and procedure, and quality assurance programs. He 
is also the coordinator of the SLC Tactical Communications Team, working jointly with the SLC 
and Duluth Tactical Response Teams. With his focus on the end user, he spends many of his 
days working with the 185 agencies dispatched by St. Louis Co 911 on the day-to-day use of the 
ARMER system. 
 
 
 
On Target Training & Consulting 
 
28 
 
 
On Target Training Staff Biographies 
David Pike 
Dave is currently a Sergeant with the Mower County Sheriff’s Office in 
Austin, MN. Dave started his career with Mower County (MN) in 1995 
when he was hired as a Deputy Sheriff. Dave was promoted to Patrol 
Sergeant and is responsible for supervising deputies in all aspects of 
Law Enforcement. In 2006 Dave began assuming the responsibility for 
department technology, which included hardware and software 
configuration for the Sheriff’s Office. 
 Dave serves as the ARMER Local System Administrator for the 
Sheriff’s Office.  He began working on the migration of all Mower 
County Law Enforcement and Emergency Services to the Minnesota ARMER radio system in 
2012. As the Local System Administrator, Dave is responsible for the maintenance and 
programming of the Dispatch Console and all 450 ARMER Radio System Subscribers/Radios in 
Mower County, as well as training 18 departments on the ARMER System and its proper use.  
Dave’s duties include representing the County in the Southeast Region of Minnesota on various 
committees including the Southeast Radio Advisory Committee (RAC), Owners and Operators, 
and Regional Logging Committee. In 2015, Dave was elected the SE RAC Chair. During this time, 
Dave has represented the Southeast Region on various statewide committees and 
workgroups.  
In 1997, Dave joined the Brownsdale Volunteer Fire Department where he has preformed 
countless hours as a firefighter. He has served as Fire Chief since 2000. In 2017, Dave became 
an instructor for the Minnesota State College System as a Fire Training Instructor. Dave has 
instructed over 20 departments in Leadership, Scene Safety, Hazardous Materials and General 
Firefighting. 
Dave’s training includes Communications Unit Leader, Communications Unit Technician, 
Firefighter 1 and 2, Fire Officer 1, Fire Instructor 1 and 2.  
 
 
 
On Target Training & Consulting 
 
29 
 
 
Appendix B 
Complete List of On Target Training Services 
 
In conjunction with the training services identified and requested in the RFP, On 
Target Training and Consulting provides the following training services:  
 
 Radio User Training (initial and refresher) 
 Radio User “Train the Trainer” (initial and refresher) 
 Radio 101 
 MCC7500 Dispatch Personnel training (initial and refresher) 
 MCC7500 Console Administrator training 
 Non-user (Elected Official) training 
 Motorola APX Mobile and Portable radio programming training 
 Motorola APX radio programming basics 
 Motorola radio programming services (Code plugs, Firmware) 
 Radio Code Plug development 
 Trunked radio system Fleetmap development 
 ARMER System Level 2 System Administration Training 
 ICS (Incident Command) principles, planning and workshop Training 
 Tabletop Communications exercises  
 COML Training 
 CASM Utilization 
 
 
 
Office of Statewide Radio 
Communications 
Project Title: Schedule for Updating VHF Interoperability Stations 
Lead: Dave Pagel      Version: 2020-05-012 
     Start Date: May 25, 2020 
Goal: Implement the conversion of the 109 existing base stations (MTR2000’s) and 
associated CCGW’s to support simplex multi-channel operation of all licensed VHF 
Interoperability channels.  Ensure all MCC7500 consoles have conforming access. 
Scope:  Below is the FINAL schedule for conversion of the MTR2000 bases and 
associated CCGW’s.  The conversions at each VHF Interop site will proceed by RAC 
region as shown in the schedule.  MnDOT radio technicians and engineers will make the 
conversions within the time frame noted.  Once all updates at the VHF Interop sites 
within that RAC region are completed, a notification of completion will be sent to the 
county/city contacts.  The VHF Interop resources in all dispatch MCC7500 consoles 
within that RAC region can then be updated per provided instructions. 
Schedule:   FINAL schedule for conversion of MTR2000 bases and CCGW’s.   
South Central RAC:   
Start May 25, 2020 
End June 5, 2020 
MnDOT  
Mankato Shop: 8 sites 
 
------------------  ONE WEEK REVIEW PERIOD --------------------------------------------- 
 
Southeast RAC:    
Start June 15, 2020 
 
End June 26, 2020 
MnDOT: 
Owatonna Shop: 8 sites  
Rochester Shop: 6 sites 
Southwest RAC:    
Start June 29, 2020 
End July 10, 2020 
MnDOT  
Windom Shop: 3 sites  
Marshall Shop: 10 sites  
Willmar Shop: 2 sites 
Central RAC:   
 
Start July 13, 2020  
End July 24, 2020 
MnDOT  
Willmar: 9 sites        St. Cloud:  5 sites        Baxter: 3 sites        Detroit Lakes: 4 sites 
Northwest RAC:    
Start July 27, 2020  
End August 7, 2020 
MnDOT  
Crookston: 3 sites        Thief River:  8 sites        Bemidji: 3 sites        Detroit Lakes: 6 sites 
Northeast RAC:    
Start August 10, 2020 
End August 21, 2020 
MnDOT  
Baxter: 5 sites     Virginia: 7 sites     Gr Rapids: 4 sites     Bemidji: 3 sites     Duluth: 11 sites 
 
Temporary Uplift of Regional 
Interoperability Talkgroup Resources 
 
June 4, 2020 
 
In light of the recent protests and civil unrest occurring in the Twin Cities, there is a high demand for ARMER (Allied 
Radio Matrix for Emergency Response) system talkgroup resources (local, regional and statewide) to support 
response operations. 
 
On June 3, the Minnesota Department of Public Safety division of Emergency Communication Networks (DPS-ECN) 
facilitated the development of a master communications plan for the Twin Cities area.  This plan relied heavily on 
regional ‘METAC’ talkgroups as well as statewide ‘STAC’ and ‘LTAC’ talkgroups. 
 
In an effort to ensure that sufficient interoperable communication resources are available to greater Minnesota 
public safety agencies, the DPS-ECN has collaborated with local, regional and state agency partners to expand the 
coverage area of selected greater Minnesota regional interoperability talkgroups (known as NWs, NEs, CMs, SWs, SRs, 
and SEs). 
 
Effective immediately, and until further notice, the first five regional interoperability talkgroup resources (e.g. NW-2 
through NW-6, SE-2 through SE-6, etc.) of each greater Minnesota region will be have the ability to access all ARMER 
sites except the following Twin Cities metro area sites: 
• 
City Center (zone 1, site 1) 
• 
Dakota County (zone 1, site 3) 
• 
Hennepin County East (zone 2, site 1) 
• 
Hennepin County West (zone 2, site 2) 
• 
Lino Lakes (zone 1, site 2) 
• 
Minneapolis (zone 1, site 9) 
• 
North Branch (zone 1, site 6) 
• 
Norwood (zone 1, site 4) 
• 
Ramsey County (zone 2, site 3) 
• 
Washington County (zone 1, site 5) 
 
The Twin Cities metro area sites were specifically excluded to protect them from inadvertent system loading. The 
remaining regional interoperability talkgroups will maintain their legacy permissions of being able to access all ARMER 
sites within their region plus one ring of sites surrounding the region.   
 
Regional interoperability talkgroups should continue to be used as they always have been but may now also be used 
in support of entities in neighboring region. As an example, law enforcement mutual aid from the northeast region 
may use NE regional interoperability channels if called to the northwest region.   
 
This added capability has technical limitations. Please note the following: 
• 
Dispatch centers are encouraged to engage your ARMER System Administrator now so that you understand 
the implications of patching to another region’s interoperability talkgroup. 
• 
End users should not select a regional or statewide interoperability talkgroup to monitor radio traffic unless 
they are actively involved in the response or have a clear operational need to do so. “Parking” on a talkgroup 
“drags” communication to your local ARMER site. This can have an adverse effect on ARMER system 
performance and inhibit the ability of responders to transmit critical information during an emergency. 
 
The increased coverage areas of the regional interoperability talkgroups is temporary. The end date has not yet been 
identified. Please share this document with dispatch personnel, technical personnel and end users. 
 
If you have technical questions, please direct them to your local ARMER System Administrator. Please contact DPS-
ECN ARMER Program Manager Jim Stromberg (james.stromberg@state.mn.us) with any unresolved questions.   
 
 
 
CENTRAL MINNESOTA EMERGENCY SERVICES BOARD 
   PHONE (320) 650 - 3320 
FAX (320) 650 - 3410
 
MEMORANDUM 
To: 
Dana Wahlberg, ECN 
From: 
Jeff Jelinski, CMESB Chair   
Subject: 
Representation on SECB Committees 
Date: 
April 9, 2020 
The Central MN RAC currently holds the following positions on the SECB Committees 
subcommittee of the Statewide Emergency Communications. We recognize the value and 
importance of these committees and we are committed to supporting its work. 
 
As chair of the Central MN ESB, I would like to designate CMNESB members listed below 
to be appointed as the representatives for CMNESB to the SECB Committees listed below. 
 
Currently the Central Region has the following representation on SECB Committees:  
Committee 
Delegate 
Alternate 
Land Mobile Radio 
Kristen Lahr 
Mike Henrion 
Legislative 
Micah Myers 
Steve Schmitt 
Steering 
Kristen Lahr 
Tina Lindquist 
Finance 
Micah Myers 
Kristen Lahr 
Grants Workgroup 
Micah Myers 
Shari Gieseke 
Regional Grants 
Coordinator/POC 
Micah Myers 
 
Interoperability  
Micah Myers 
Kristen Lahr 
Interop COMU 
Workgroup 
Chief Dean Wrobbel 
Brandon Larson 
Interop STR 
Workgroup 
Douglas County 
Brandon Larson as 
Regional Coordinator 
IPAWS 
Patrick Waletzko 
Erin Tufte 
Wireless Broadband 
& Applications 
Brandon Larson 
Mike Wisniewski 
NG911 
Jason Karlgaard 
Sarah Booker 
CAG 
Brandon Larson 
 
 
We feel that this would make a good discussion item for the regional quarterly meetings. 
Thank you for your consideration in this matter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Jeff Jelinski 
 
 
Assistant Commissioner West 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                         April 23, 2020 
Chairman Statewide Emergency Communications Board 
Minnesota Department of Public Safety  
444 Cedar Street 
Saint Paul, MN  55101 
 
RE:  2021 Motorola SUAII Support Service 
 
Dear Asst. Commissioner West: 
 
In response to standard 4.12.0, MnDOT is submitting the calendar year 2021 Motorola System Software 
Upgrade Agreement (SUAII) cost and agency cost shares.  
 
A new SUA II contract has been negotiated with Motorola. The proposed contract with Motorola has a five year 
term covering calendar years 2021-2025 with a total cost of $31.7M.  
 
The Motorola System Upgrade Agreement (SUA II) contract provides for: 
• 
One on site dedicated field service technician 
• 
Technical Support Services 
• 
Security Update Services  
• 
SUA II System Software Subscription Agreement. This provides all Software and Hardware as 
required per contract for upgrades and life cycle replacement, and professional services 
required for both software and hardware implementation  
 
A breakdown of the agency costs is attached. The attached breakdown provides the costs for the full 5 year term 
of the contract. These cost are subject to change if an agency adds or removes equipment to/from the Motorola 
system.  
 
I’m seeking Board approval for MnDOT to enter into the SUAII contract with Motorola and approving that 
MnDOT bill the local agencies annually for their shares of the cost.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
Tim Lee, Director 
Office of Statewide Radio Communications 
 
Cc. 
Irene Fernando, Chair Steering Committee 
 
Micah Myers, Chair Finance Committee 
 
Dave Thompson, Chair Land Mobile Radio Committee 
 
Dana Wahlberg, DPS-ECN 
 
ARMER FIVE YEAR SERVICES AND SUA II PRICING 
Support Services Brief Description of Services
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025 Five Year Total
Technical Support
Technical Support is available 7 days a week, 24 hours 
a day, as defined in Section X. The Motorola System 
Support Center's staff will work with your local service 
organization or technicians to handle questions 
related to your Motorola 2-way communications 
system. If the problem is beyond the scope of the 
SSC's staff, they will contact key personnel who are 
involved with the design, development, and 
manufacture of your communication products for 
resolution.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Technical Support
$148,759.00
$158,040.00
$167,490.00
$177,135.00
$186,964.00
$838,388.00
Dedicated FSO
Motorola will provide one dedicated field service 
technician, who is specifically trained and qualified to 
support the MN Metro/ARMER Radio System.  The 
assigned technician will expend his/her full 40-hour 
workweek performing corrective maintenance on 
appropriate project work assigned as agreed to by 
Motorola and the System Owners with direction from 
the MN Metro/ARMER System Administrator.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Dedicated FSO 
$235,286.00
$239,992.00
$244,791.00
$249,700.00
$254,689.00
$1,224,458.00
Security Update Service
Security Update Service provides updates of the latest 
anti-virus definition, intrusion signature files and OS 
Patches that have been pre-tested on a Motorola test 
system to ensure they do not interfere with radio 
system functionality.  Pre-tested updates will be made 
available as necessary, however, an outbreak of 
malicious code that is deemed a significant threat to 
the Astro 25 radio network will cause a priority test 
cycle to occur which will release anti-virus definition 
updates in a shorter cycle. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total Security Update Service 
$61,072.00
$62,904.00
$64,791.00
$66,735.00
$68,737.00
$324,239.00
Services Total
$445,117.00
$460,936.00
$477,072.00
$493,570.00
$510,390.00
$2,387,085.00
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUA II
Includes All Software and Hardware as required per 
contract for upgrades and life cycle replacement, and 
professional services required for both software and 
hardware implementation. 
SUA II Total 
$5,793,155.00
$5,826,843.00
$5,861,542.00
$5,897,282.00
$5,934,093.00
$29,312,915.00
 
Annual Contract Totals
$6,238,272.00 $6,287,779.00
$6,338,614.00
$6,390,852.00 $6,444,483.00
$31,700,000.00
*(From existing contract) Motorola will invoice the 
State on a semi- annual basis (one invoice in advance 
in January and one invoice in July of each year) and 
payment is due within thirty (30) days of the invoice 
date. 
*Pricing  Based Upon Five Year Contract
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Not a firm offer for sale till fully approved via MSI internal approval process and subject to change
*Pricing Validity Based Upon Contract Execution 
 by November 
20, 2020
 
 
 
 
*Price Based Upon Scope As Above Any Changes Would Adjust Pricing Of All Items 
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for 
Calendar year 
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
$6,287,779.00
$6,338,614.00
$6,390,852.00
$6,444,483.00
These costrs are based on the system configuration as of April 2020. Subject to change if you add or remove equipment.
 MESB
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
MESB
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Metro Transit
$35,273.63
$35,481.12
$35,751.58
$36,029.53
$36,314.90
HCMC
$8,900.16
$8,952.52
$9,020.76
$9,090.89
$9,162.90
MRCC East
$6,260.47
$6,297.30
$6,345.30
$6,394.63
$6,445.28
Edina
$4,173.65
$4,198.20
$4,230.20
$4,263.09
$4,296.85
MAC
$6,587.50
$6,626.25
$6,676.76
$6,728.67
$6,781.96
Ridgeview
$5,053.55
$5,083.27
$5,122.02
$5,161.84
$5,202.72
St Louis Park
$4,173.65
$4,198.20
$4,230.20
$4,263.09
$4,296.85
Bloomington
$5,606.41
$5,639.39
$5,682.38
$5,726.56
$5,771.91
Eden Prairie
$18,680.23
$18,790.11
$18,933.34
$19,080.53
$19,231.66
U of M
$5,933.44
$5,968.34
$6,013.84
$6,060.59
$6,108.60
Anoka County
$87,609.94
$88,125.28
$88,797.04
$89,487.38
$90,196.16
Carver County
$30,494.32
$30,673.69
$30,907.51
$31,147.80
$31,394.50
Chisago County
$59,756.78
$60,108.28
$60,566.47
$61,037.34
$61,520.79
Dakota County
$100,201.77
$100,791.18
$101,559.49
$102,349.04
$103,159.70
Hennepin County
$284,852.76
$286,528.34
$288,712.48
$290,957.03
$293,261.56
Isanti County
$9,956.04
$10,014.61
$10,090.94
$10,169.39
$10,249.94
Ramsey County
$118,088.12
$118,782.75
$119,688.20
$120,618.70
$121,574.06
Scott County
$60,660.14
$61,016.96
$61,482.08
$61,960.06
$62,450.81
Sherburne County
$29,615.89
$29,790.09
$30,017.18
$30,250.54
$30,490.14
Washington County
$117,299.15
$117,989.13
$118,888.54
$119,812.81
$120,761.79
Minneapolis
$78,972.27
$79,436.81
$80,042.34
$80,664.62
$81,303.52
Total
$1,078,149.85
$1,084,491.80
$1,092,758.65
$1,101,254.12
$1,109,976.63
State ( Includes any SW users)
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
ARMER Infrastructure (MnDOT)
$4,144,534.09
$4,181,725.21
$4,216,506.21
$4,252,246.22
$4,288,938.35
MnDOT
$12,598.67
$12,672.78
$12,769.38
$12,868.65
$12,970.58
State Patrol
$54,857.21
$55,179.90
$55,600.52
$56,032.78
$56,476.59
DOC 
$90,223.23
$90,753.95
$91,445.74
$92,156.68
$92,886.60
MSOP
$16,643.26
$16,741.16
$16,868.78
$16,999.92
$17,134.57
North Memorial
$8,900.16
$8,952.52
$9,020.76
$9,090.89
$9,162.90
Allina(Lakeview EMS, New River Ambulance)
$14,179.55
$14,262.96
$14,371.68
$14,483.41
$14,598.13
Mayo/Gold Cross
$15,261.82
$15,351.60
$15,468.62
$15,588.88
$15,712.35
Sanford
$7,467.40
$7,511.32
$7,568.58
$7,627.42
$7,687.83
Total
$4,364,665.40
$4,403,151.38
$4,439,620.27
$4,477,094.85
$4,515,567.90
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for 
Calendar year 
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
$6,287,779.00
$6,338,614.00
$6,390,852.00
$6,444,483.00
These costrs are based on the system configuration as of April 2020. Subject to change if you add or remove equipment.
Central MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
CM Regional Equipment
$3,846.62
$3,869.25
$3,898.74
$3,929.05
$3,960.17
St Cloud
$20,387.23
$20,507.15
$20,663.47
$20,824.12
$20,989.05
Stearns County
$56,109.60
$56,439.65
$56,869.88
$57,312.01
$57,765.95
Benton County
$5,003.68
$5,033.12
$5,071.48
$5,110.91
$5,151.39
Wright County
$32,456.49
$32,647.41
$32,896.27
$33,152.02
$33,414.60
Kandiyohi County
$18,278.41
$18,385.92
$18,526.08
$18,670.10
$18,817.98
Meeker County
$14,003.57
$14,085.94
$14,193.32
$14,303.66
$14,416.95
Grant County
$3,997.67
$4,021.18
$4,051.84
$4,083.34
$4,115.68
Douglas County
$10,258.14
$10,318.48
$10,397.14
$10,477.97
$10,560.96
Stevens County
$3,972.74
$3,996.11
$4,026.57
$4,057.87
$4,090.01
Pope County
$4,274.84
$4,299.98
$4,332.76
$4,366.44
$4,401.03
Wadena County
$3,293.75
$3,313.12
$3,338.38
$3,364.33
$3,390.98
Otter Tail County
$22,324.47
$22,455.79
$22,626.96
$22,802.87
$22,983.48
Morrison County 
$12,343.50
$12,416.10
$12,510.75
$12,608.01
$12,707.87
Mille Lacs County
$11,589.72
$11,657.89
$11,746.76
$11,838.08
$11,931.84
Wilkin County
$6,410.05
$6,447.76
$6,496.91
$6,547.42
$6,599.28
Traverse County
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Big Stone County
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Todd County
$4,500.68
$4,527.15
$4,561.66
$4,597.12
$4,633.54
Swift County
$6,410.05
$6,447.76
$6,496.91
$6,547.42
$6,599.28
Total
$239,461.19
$240,869.76
$242,705.86
$244,592.74
$246,530.04
South East MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Olmsted County
$28,835.71
$29,005.33
$29,226.43
$29,453.65
$29,686.93
Rochester
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Goodhue County
$40,072.00
$40,307.72
$40,614.97
$40,930.73
$41,254.92
Wabasha County
$5,154.73
$5,185.05
$5,224.58
$5,265.20
$5,306.90
Winona County
$14,204.48
$14,288.03
$14,396.95
$14,508.88
$14,623.79
Houston County
$3,620.78
$3,642.08
$3,669.84
$3,698.37
$3,727.66
Fillmore County
$4,274.84
$4,299.98
$4,332.76
$4,366.44
$4,401.03
Mower County
$12,922.76
$12,998.78
$13,097.86
$13,199.69
$13,304.24
Freeborn County
$20,614.53
$20,735.79
$20,893.86
$21,056.29
$21,223.07
Dodge County
$3,620.78
$3,642.08
$3,669.84
$3,698.37
$3,727.66
Rice County
$17,546.62
$17,649.84
$17,784.38
$17,922.64
$18,064.60
Steele County
$13,875.98
$13,957.61
$14,064.00
$14,173.34
$14,285.60
Rice/Steel Dispatch
$19,560.12
$19,675.18
$19,825.16
$19,979.29
$20,137.53
Total
$184,303.35
$185,387.47
$186,800.63
$188,252.89
$189,743.95
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for 
Calendar year 
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
$6,287,779.00
$6,338,614.00
$6,390,852.00
$6,444,483.00
These costrs are based on the system configuration as of April 2020. Subject to change if you add or remove equipment.
South Central MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Regional Radio Board
$6,838.27
$6,878.50
$6,930.93
$6,984.81
$7,040.14
McLeod County
$12,469.62
$12,542.96
$12,638.58
$12,736.83
$12,837.72
Hutchinson
$3,293.75
$3,313.12
$3,338.38
$3,364.33
$3,390.98
Sibley County
$10,357.86
$10,418.79
$10,498.21
$10,579.83
$10,663.62
Nicollet County
$5,154.73
$5,185.05
$5,224.58
$5,265.20
$5,306.90
LeSueur County
$12,318.57
$12,391.03
$12,485.48
$12,582.55
$12,682.21
Brown County
$10,709.82
$10,772.82
$10,854.94
$10,939.33
$11,025.97
Blue Earth County
$8,121.45
$8,169.23
$8,231.50
$8,295.49
$8,361.20
Watonwan Caounty
$3,293.75
$3,313.12
$3,338.38
$3,364.33
$3,390.98
Waseca County
$18,628.90
$18,738.48
$18,881.32
$19,028.11
$19,178.82
Martin County
$3,947.81
$3,971.03
$4,001.30
$4,032.41
$4,064.35
Faribault County
$4,827.70
$4,856.10
$4,893.12
$4,931.16
$4,970.22
Total
$99,962.23
$100,550.23
$101,316.71
$102,104.38
$102,913.10
South West MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
SW MN Emergency Communications Board
$27,050.98
$27,210.11
$27,417.52
$27,630.68
$27,849.52
Murray County
$3,620.78
$3,642.08
$3,669.84
$3,698.37
$3,727.66
Laq Qui Parle County
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Chippewa County
$10,030.83
$10,089.84
$10,166.75
$10,245.79
$10,326.94
Renville County
$10,030.83
$10,089.84
$10,166.75
$10,245.79
$10,326.94
Yellow Medicine County
$10,357.86
$10,418.79
$10,498.21
$10,579.83
$10,663.62
Redwood County
$4,274.84
$4,299.98
$4,332.76
$4,366.44
$4,401.03
Lincoln County
$2,740.88
$2,757.00
$2,778.02
$2,799.62
$2,821.79
Lyon County
$10,684.89
$10,747.74
$10,829.67
$10,913.86
$11,000.31
Pipestone County
$3,947.81
$3,971.03
$4,001.30
$4,032.41
$4,064.35
Cottonwood County
$3,947.81
$3,971.03
$4,001.30
$4,032.41
$4,064.35
Rock County
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Nobles County
$3,947.81
$3,971.03
$4,001.30
$4,032.41
$4,064.35
Jackson County
$6,410.05
$6,447.76
$6,496.91
$6,547.42
$6,599.28
Total
$97,045.37
$97,616.22
$98,360.32
$99,125.01
$99,910.13
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for 
Calendar year 
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
$6,287,779.00
$6,338,614.00
$6,390,852.00
$6,444,483.00
These costrs are based on the system configuration as of April 2020. Subject to change if you add or remove equipment.
North East MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Itasca County
$6,361.66
$6,399.08
$6,447.86
$6,497.99
$6,549.45
Kanabec County
$4,173.65
$4,198.20
$4,230.20
$4,263.09
$4,296.85
Pine County
$3,947.81
$3,971.03
$4,001.30
$4,032.41
$4,064.35
Cass County
$21,343.38
$21,468.93
$21,632.58
$21,800.76
$21,973.43
Crow Wing County
$17,397.04
$17,499.38
$17,632.77
$17,769.85
$17,910.60
Atkin County
$10,910.73
$10,974.91
$11,058.57
$11,144.54
$11,232.81
Koochiching County
$3,293.75
$3,313.12
$3,338.38
$3,364.33
$3,390.98
Carlton County
$5,908.51
$5,943.27
$5,988.57
$6,035.13
$6,082.93
St Louis County
$48,145.06
$48,428.26
$48,797.42
$49,176.79
$49,566.30
City of Duluth
$7,465.93
$7,509.85
$7,567.09
$7,625.92
$7,686.32
Lake County
$3,947.81
$3,971.03
$4,001.30
$4,032.41
$4,064.35
Cook County
$3,721.97
$3,743.86
$3,772.40
$3,801.73
$3,831.84
Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe
$3,620.78
$3,642.08
$3,669.84
$3,698.37
$3,727.66
Total
$140,238.08
$141,062.99
$142,138.28
$143,243.32
$144,377.88
North West MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Hubbard County
$3,947.81
$3,971.03
$4,001.30
$4,032.41
$4,064.35
Polk County 
$5,053.55
$5,083.27
$5,122.02
$5,161.84
$5,202.72
Becker County
$5,531.62
$5,564.16
$5,606.58
$5,650.16
$5,694.92
Beltrami County
$5,707.60
$5,741.18
$5,784.94
$5,829.91
$5,876.09
White Earth
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Clearwater County
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Pennington
$3,293.75
$3,313.12
$3,338.38
$3,364.33
$3,390.98
RRRDC
$10,208.28
$10,268.33
$10,346.60
$10,427.04
$10,509.62
Clay County
$703.92
$708.06
$713.46
$719.00
$724.70
Cass County ND(Estimated)
(Under warranty)
$82,375.25
$83,003.18
$83,648.48
$84,311.02
Total
$34,446.52
$117,024.40
$117,916.45
$118,833.17
$119,774.39
 
 
 
 
Assistant Commissioner West 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                         April 23, 2020 
Chairman Statewide Emergency Communications Board 
Minnesota Department of Public Safety  
444 Cedar Street 
Saint Paul, MN  55101 
 
RE:  FY 2021 MnDOT ARMER Operations and Maintenance Budget Estimate 
 
Dear Asst. Commissioner West: 
 
In an effort to meet the following requirements the estimated Fiscal Year 2021 MnDOT ARMER System 
Backbone Maintenance and Operations Budget is attached.  
 
MnDOT – DPS DECN Contract 93882:  
 
8.2a MnDOT shall prepare and submit to DPS and the Board a proposed maintenance and repair budget plan for 
the upcoming budget year and for each fiscal year of the state biennium by May 1 of each year. The 
maintenance, repair and routine equipment replacement budget shall include normal recurring maintenance 
costs and anticipated major repair or equipment replacement costs.  
 
8.4 The budget shall identify funding levels provided for in MnDOT’s base budget, any restriction upon these 
appropriations and amounts that are not presently funded. The budget and all relevant information shall be 
presented to the Board.  
 
I will be available at the Finance Committee and Board to answer any question on the estimated budget. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Tim Lee, Director 
Office of Statewide Radio Communications 
1500 West County Road B2 
Roseville, MN 55113 
 
 
 
Cc. 
Dana Wahlberg, DPS DECN 
 
Micah Myers, Chair SECB Finance Committee 
 
Office of Statewide Radio Communications 
1500 West County Road B2 
Roseville, MN 55113 
 
April 22, 2020 
 
Fiscal Year 2021 
ARMER System Backbone Maintenance and Operations Budget  
 
The annual report for the maintenance and operations budget of the ARMER system is presented to 
the Department of Public Safety and the Statewide Radio Board through its Finance Committee by May 
1st of each year.  
The purpose of this report is to aid the Statewide Emergency Communications Board in its obligation to 
oversee the implementation of the ARMER plan and ensure that the system is built, owned, operated, 
and maintained in accordance with the ARMER plan.  
 
ARMER Backbone Maintenance and Operations Revenue Sources 
The following table summarizes the revenue sources that directly support ARMER backbone 
maintenance and operations for the next fiscal year; FY 2021 (July 1, 2020 – June 30, 2021.)  
Revenue Sources for ARMER Backbone Maintenance and Operations 
Source 
FY 2021 
911 Fee Legislative Appropriation to MnDOT OSRC 
 $                                       9,675,000.00  
Trunk Highway Funds (ARMER Appropriation to OSRC)  $                                       1,300,000.00  
Trunk Highway Funds (MnDOT Appropriation to 
OSRC)* 
 $                                       1,550,000.00  
Tower Rental Lease Receipts (Estimated) 
 $                                       1,200,000.00  
Total  $                                     13,725,000.00  
 
* Estimate of ARMER maintenance and operations expenses paid from TH Funds appropriated to 
Statewide Radio Communications.  
Note:  Minnesota Constitution dedicates Trunk Highway Funds to trunk highway purposes. The use of 
these funds for ARMER system maintenance and operations is to support MnDOT and State Patrol use 
of the ARMER system.  
 
ARMER Expenditures (FY2019) 
The last complete fiscal year, FY 2019, was used as a baseline for estimating the FY21 budget. The total 
ARMER maintenance and operation expenditure for FY2019 was $13,924,712.74. The following table 
shows the FY 2019 expenditures. 
ARMER Maintenance & Operations Expenditures for FY 2019 
Total ARMER Labor 
 $                                                               5,812,917.05  
Motorola SUAII (ARMER backbone share)* 
 $                                                               2,955,316.07  
Utilities 
 $                                                               1,269,036.77  
ARMER Facilities improvements 
 $                                                               1,367,018.30  
Parts/Repairs 
 $                                                               1,721,463.11  
Rent 
 $                                                                   360,231.00  
Office Other 
 $                                                                   438,730.43  
Total: 
 $                                                             13,924,712.74  
*The SUAII cost shown here is not the full cost of the SUAII, this is only the portion of the SUAII 
paid from the ARMER Maintenance and Operations budget.  
The following tables show a breakdown of the FY2019 labor, parts/services lines from the above table. 
This show how the maintenance services are split around the different elements that make up the 
ARMER system backbone.  
Breakdown of FY 2019 ARMER Labor Expenditures  
800 MHz system maintenance  
 $                                                               2,086,158.29  
Facilities maintenance 
 $                                                               1,640,393.12  
Microwave maintenance 
 $                                                                   757,237.77  
Radio Operation Center 
 $                                                                   572,941.97  
Partner Agency Support  
 $                                                                   325,714.71  
Overtime/Shift Diff/On call 
 $                                                                   207,577.43  
MnIT Embedded (Sys Admin) 
 $                                                                   153,459.60  
Interop maintenance 
 $                                                                     30,597.31  
FCC Licensing 
 $                                                                     38,836.86  
Total ARMER Labor 
 $                                                               5,812,917.05  
Breakdown of FY 2019 ARMER Parts/Services Expenditures  
Facilities Maintenance Parts & Services 
 $                                                                   440,466.91  
800 MHz System Parts & Services 
 $                                                                   879,571.11  
Microwave Parts & Services 
 $                                                                   401,276.98  
Interop System Parts & Services 
 $                                                                           148.11  
Total Parts/services 
 $                                                               1,721,463.11  
 
ARMER Maintenance and operations proposed budget for Fiscal Years 2021 
The FY21 proposed maintenance and operation budget is outlined in the table below. This proposed 
budget is based on experience from previous budget years, planned facilities/equipment upgrades and 
known increased operating costs. This budget plan assumes continued routine maintenance as 
previous years. If a major equipment failure were to occur with costs beyond the routine budget we 
would reevaluate and postpone any planned major facilities/equipment upgrades.   
ARMER Operations & Maintenance Estimates 
FY2021 
  
800 MHz system maintenance labor 
 $                                 1,450,000.00    
Facilities maintenance labor 
 $                                 1,500,000.00    
Microwave labor 
 $                                     850,000.00    
System Admin/ System Eng./Install Support Labor 
 $                                     650,000.00    
Radio Operation Center labor 
 $                                     580,000.00    
Partner Agency Support Labor 
 $                                     325,000.00    
Overtime/Shift Diff/On call 
 $                                     210,000.00    
MnIT Embedded (Sys Admin) 
 $                                     300,000.00    
Interop maintenance labor 
 $                                     150,000.00    
FCC Licensing 
 $                                       35,000.00    
Motorola SUAII (ARMER Backbone share) 
 $                                 3,119,136.00  * 
Utilities 
 $                                 1,300,000.00    
Facilities upgrades 
 $                                     450,000.00    
Microwave/backhaul upgrades 
 $                                     300,000.00    
Interop station replacements 
 $                                       75,000.00    
Facilities Maintenance Parts & Services 
 $                                     400,000.00    
800 MHz System Parts & Services 
 $                                     880,000.00    
Microwave Parts & Services 
 $                                     450,000.00    
Interop System Parts & Services 
 $                                         5,000.00    
Rent 
 $                                     360,000.00    
Test Equipment 
 $                                       25,000.00    
Vehicles 
 $                                       90,000.00    
Training 
 $                                       50,000.00    
Travel (In State) 
 $                                       20,000.00    
General Office Support, IT Support, Phones, etc. 
 $                                     150,000.00    
TOTAL 
 $                               13,724,136.00    
 
* FY21 ARMER Backbone Motorola SUAII cost increases beginning January 2021.  
Statewide Radio Communications ARMER Maintenance Staffing 
No major personnel changes are planned for this budget cycle, other than we are working to add a new 
embedded MnIT employee to serve as a backup and assistant to the ARMER System Administrator. To 
offset this position we will not backfill a future planned retirement in the office. 
We continue to have personnel rotations as staff retire or move on. With this change over in staff we 
will continue to have training costs to bring them up to speed on the ARMER system.  
 
Planned major improvements and equipment replacements for FY20/21 
The following equipment or facilities upgrades are planned in the FY20 budget: 
• FY20 – Replace Thief River Falls tower 
 
$600,000 
Replace older tower and install new shelter at MnDOT facilities in Thief River Falls. 
 
• FY20/21 – Upgrades to the Proteus microwave 
$600,000 
Purchase software upgrade licenses to the Proteus microwave radios. These upgrades are in 
preparation for packet backhaul requirements of the ARMER network. 
 
• FY21 – Interop system changes(if approved)  
$150,000 labor charges 
A workgroup of the LMR committee are working on a plan to update the VHF interop layer. This 
plan when approved will require addition time to relicense and reprogram the interop base 
radios. 
 
• FY21 -  Interop station replacement  
 
$75,000 
 
Replace 8CALL and 8TAC1 station at City Center. These stations were installed in 2001 and have 
become difficult to maintain.  
 
• FY20 – Upgrade the metro area multiplexers 
$450,000 
Replace the lucent multiplexers in the metro area microwave loops. Equipment is getting older 
and needs to be replaced. Replacement will support future microwave transport changes 
planned in the metro system.  
 
• FY21 – Purchase 4 radio equipment shelter  
$450,000 
Purchase new radio equipment shelters for Wolf Lake, Idington, Roosevelt and Little Fork. 
 
• FY21 – Shelter installs  
 
 
 
$150,000 
Foundations, fencing, etc. for shelter installs at Wolf Lake and Idington.  
 
 
Motorola SUAII 
 
 
SUAII Calendar years 2021-2025 
 
December 2020 is the end of the current Motorola support contract. Contract work is in process with 
Motorola for the 2021-2015 contract. The negotiated price for the 2021-2025 contract is 
$31,700,000.00. 
 
 
SUAII Impact of future contract on ARMER Backbone Maintenance and operations budget 
 
For FY 2021 the ARMER backbone maintenance and operations budget will have an estimated cost of 
$3,119,136.00 towards the Motorola SUAII contract.  
 
For FY 2022 and beyond the current ARMER backbone maintenance and operations budget can 
support $3,650,000.00 annually towards the Motorola SUAII contract. This leaves an annual funding 
gap in the MnDOT ARMER operating budget of $519,288 in FY22, $557,543 in FY23, $592,625 in FY24 
and $629,062 in FY25. MnDOT is working with DPS-ECN to cover these funding gaps.  
 
The following table shows the planned payments to Motorola. 
 
  
  
  
Motorola SUAII 
Invoice 
Payment 
Funding source 
 
FY 
2020 
 July 
2019 
Motorola SUAII Plus Contract - 
Ends December 31, 2020        
Contract Yearly Total 
$10,066,132.42   (SUAII portion 
$4,499,234.60  -  7.19 Hardware 
portion $5,566,897.82) 
 $    5,033,066.21   $ 3,952,911.76  
Pass thru Billing from Local Agencies 
 
 $ 1,080,154.45  
Pass thru billing from DPS-ECN Contract 
 
 
January 
2020 
 $    5,033,066.21   $ 3,041,387.19  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
 
 $ 1,991,679.02  
Pass thru billing from DPS-ECN Contract 
 
FY 
2021 
 July 
2020 
 $    5,033,066.21   $ 3,952,911.76  
Pass thru Billing from Local Agencies 
 
 $ 1,080,154.45  
Pass thru billing from DPS-ECN Contract (Contract  
Ends 2020) 
 
 
January 
2021 
New Motorola SUAII Contract 
$31,700,000.00 over 5 calendar 
years, 2021-2025. 
 $    3,119,136.00   $ 3,119,136.00  
MnDOT-OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
$3.12M from MnDOT OSRC 
  
  
FY21 Operating Budget 
FY 
2022 
 July 
2021 
 $    3,119,136.00   $ 2,093,737.91  
Pass thru Billing from Local Agencies  
 
 $ 1,025,398.09  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
$3.65M from MnDOT OSRC 
 
January 
2022 
 $    3,143,889.50   $ 2,624,601.91  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
FY22 Operating Budget 
 $    519,287.59      New Contract with DPS-ECN needed 
 
FY 
2023 
 July 
2022 
 $    3,143,889.50   $ 2,106,053.79  
Pass thru Billing from Local Agencies  
 
 $ 1,037,835.71  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
$3.65M from MnDOT OSRC 
 
January 
2023 
 $    3,169,307.00   $ 2,612,164.29  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
FY23 Operating Budget 
 $    557,142.71      New Contract with DPS-ECN needed 
 
FY 
2024 
 July 
2023 
 $    3,169,307.00   $ 2,122,107.79  
Pass thru Billing from Local Agencies  
 
 $ 1,047,199.21  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
$3.65M from MnDOT OSRC 
 
January 
2024 
 $    3,195,426.00   $ 2,602,800.79  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
FY24 Operating Budget 
 $    592,625.21      New Contract with DPS-ECN needed 
 
FY 
2025 
 July 
2024 
 $    3,195,426.00   $ 2,138,605.78  
Pass thru Billing from Local Agencies  
 
 $ 1,056,820.22  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
$3.65M from MnDOT OSRC 
 
January 
2025 
 $    3,222,241.50   $ 2,593,179.78  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
FY25 Operating Budget 
 $    629,061.72      New Contract with DPS-ECN needed 
 
FY 
2026 
 July 
2025 
 $    3,222,241.50   $ 2,155,544.65  
Pass thru Billing from Local Agencies  
 
 $ 1,066,696.85  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
$1.1M + ?? from MnDOT-
OSRC 
 
January 
2026 
?? Contract 2026 and beyond ?? 
 ?????  
  
  
FY26 Operating Budget 
  
  
?? - 2026 Contract 
Motorola SUAII (Impact of future contract cont.) 
In addition to the cost increase to the SUAII we have also been informed that the radio site and console 
connections to the master sites will need to transition from T1 based to Ethernet. The estimated cost 
to convert the transport is $2,000,000.00.  MnDOT OSRC engineering staff is current working with 
MnIT to better define the network design and update this estimate. As we are working on the final 
network we are also working on what the implementation plan and timeline will be. Depending on the 
timeline we may be able to fit the costs into the MnDOT ARMER operations budget by delaying some 
facility upgrade plans.  
In addition the local agencies with Motorola connected equipment will need to convert their 
connections to Ethernet. Options for converting this connect will vary agency by agency. For planning 
purposes connected agencies should plan that every T1 they have for a console connection or a local 
enhancement site connection will need to purchase T1 to Ethernet converters. A pair of RAD RiCi’s per 
T1 is one option to accomplish this. We would estimate the cost of a pair of RAD RiCi’s to be about 
$4000.   
Once the details of the final network design are completed MnDOT will bring forward an ARMER 
system plan change to the Board.  
 
Long term facilities and equipment replacement plans 
We have a number of towers that are on the air for ARMER that are old towers constructed in the 
1950’s. These towers did not pass structural when we added the new ARMER equipment. But the level 
of structural deficiency was not a risk that required immediate replacement. So we have held off on 
replacement of these towers to see where we were in the ARMER construction budget to build what 
we had in the approved plan.  These towers will not fit into the ARMER construction funds and will 
need to be funded out of the Operations and Maintenance budget as it allows.  
 
 
TOWER REPLACEMENTS  
Freedhem 
Replace tower/shelter 
$600,000.00 
Thief River Falls 
Replace tower/shelter 
$600,000.00 
Viola 
Replace tower 
$600,000.00 
Kimball 
Replace tower 
$600,000.00 
Hoffman 
Replace tower 
$600,000.00 
New London 
Replace tower/shelter 
$600,000.00 
Woodland 
Replace tower/shelter 
$600,000.00 
Littlefork 
Replace tower/shelter 
$600,000.00 
Roosevelt 
Replace tower/shelter 
$600,000.00 
Crookston 
Replace Tower 
$400,000.00 
Wolf Lake 
Replace Shelter 
$140,000.00 
Indington  
Replace Shelter 
$140,000.00 
Geneva: Need to look at land purchase, new tower? 
$500,000.00 
Mapleton:  Find land and build new tower 
$500,000.00 
 
 
 
As it fits into the available maintenance budget we are also planning for: 
• Tower Painting 
• Tower inspections 
• Tower guy wire tensioning/replacement 
• Tower safety climbs 
• Tower lighting system replacements 
• HVAC replacements 
• Replacing VHF interop stations (109 stations across the state that are 20(+) years old) 
• Battery replacements 
• Replenish spares inventory 
• Replacement of older microwave radios 
o Constellation microwave links (23 hops) 
o CM6 microwave links (39 hops) 
o Megastar microwave links (27 hops) 
 
 
 
 
445 MINNESOTA STREET, SUITE 1725  •  SAINT PAUL, MINNESOTA 55101 
PHONE: 651.201.7547  •  FAX: 651.296.2665  •  TTY: 651.282.6555 
DPS.MN.GOV  •  SECB@STATE.MN.US 
 
TO: 
Allied Radio Matrix for Emergency Response (ARMER) 
System Upgrade Agreement Stakeholders 
FROM:  
Assistant Commissioner Bruce West, SECB Chair 
DATE:  
April 9, 2020 
SUBJECT: 
ARMER 2021-2025 System Upgrade Agreement (SUA) Status 
 
Minnesota’s land mobile radio system known as ARMER has been in service and has experienced 
continual growth and improvement since 2002.  To keep the ARMER system current and to provide 
predictable on-going costs, the state engaged in a System Upgrade Agreement (SUA) with ARMER’s 
manufacturer, Motorola Solutions.  The current five-year SUA contract between the state and Motorola 
expires 12/31/2020. 
While the Minnesota Department of Transportation (MnDOT) owns the ARMER network “backbone” 
and a majority of the infrastructure, many ARMER participant entities own network components 
including local subsystem infrastructure and dispatch consoles.  The Department of Public Safety 
division of Emergency Communication Networks (ECN) has primary responsibility for the majority of the 
SUA financial cost.  However, all network component owners proportionally contribute toward SUA 
costs and have a vested interest in the SUA contract. 
MnDOT and ECN have been engaged in ongoing discussions with Motorola for the 2021 – 2025 SUA.  We 
recently reached an agreement with Motorola which surpasses an offer that was previously shared with 
ARMER stakeholders.  This has been a lengthy but productive process.  We are appreciative of the input, 
guidance and support we received from our public safety partners during this process.   
To recap, in late 2017 Motorola presented an initial budgetary proposal for the next five-year SUA in the 
amount of $45M ($9M per year).  The state did not accept that offer as it included services beyond what 
Minnesota requested or required.  In early 2018, Motorola produced a revised budgetary proposal 
offering services in alignment with those of the current SUA at a cost of $33M ($6.6M per year).  While 
ECN and MnDOT furthered discussions with Motorola, MnDOT calculated the tentative five-year SUA 
cost to each network component owner based on their respective ownership proportion.  These 
preliminary SUA costs were provided to all stakeholders in 2018 for their budgetary planning purposes. 
Because ARMER is a statewide, shared system resource, it is essential that all ARMER network 
component owners are in agreement with both the level of service and the associated cost to support 
those services over the course of each Motorola contract. 
In July 2018 and again in November 2018, ECN hosted informational meetings with statewide ARMER 
stakeholders to review Motorola’s proposal.  ECN was provided with valuable feedback from individual 
stakeholders as well as from the regional Emergency Communications/Services Boards (ECB/ESBs) 
indicating Motorola’s $33M proposal for a five-year SUA lacked sufficient detail and justification for cost.  
ECN was delegated with pursuing increased detail and improved pricing. 
ECN initiated a Request for Proposal (RFP) in quarter four 2018 to secure professional and technical 
consultants to support this important initiative.  In February 2019, ECN awarded a contract to Tusa 
Consulting to assist in analyzing the scope and cost for the proposed SUA proposal.  The Tusa team met 
Page 2 
with ECN and ARMER stakeholders, as well as with MnDOT and with Motorola to become familiar with 
the current SUA, to understand the specifics of the proposed SUA, as well as to perform a detailed 
comparison and analysis between the current services and those being offered in the proposed SUA.  
During this process, Tusa met with regional ECBs/ESBs to keep information flowing and communication 
lines open, as well as to solicit their feedback.  Regular updates were provided during Land Mobile Radio 
committee meetings, as well as Statewide Emergency Communication Board (SECB) meetings. 
Thanks to the collaborative efforts of multiple partners, we have recently reached a tentative agreement 
with Motorola.  Highlights of the five-year SUA for 2021-2025 include: 
•
Cost of $31.7M for five years.  Motorola priced year one at $6,238,272.00 and reflects a 1%
increase each subsequent year.
•
Motorola will deliver two major upgrades during the five year period.
•
Motorola will discount subscriber radio pricing for the remainder of the existing subscriber 
contract (beginning late-April 2020 and expires February 1, 2022).
•
Motorola will discontinue requiring old radios be traded in when negotiating large purchases 
with pricing better than the state contract (allowing entities to donate old radios).
•
Motorola and MnDOT will continue to share system maintenance responsibilities similar to 
existing practice.
•
The contract must be fully executed by November 20, 2020.
Next steps are currently under way.  The Finance committee is expected to review the proposal and 
make a recommendation to the SECB to approve it. MnDOT will begin work with the Minnesota 
Department of Administration (MDA) to initiate a Single Source Justification RFP in accordance with 
state procurement rules.  MDA will continue to support the contract negotiation process to ensure that 
all terms and conditions are met.   
Each ARMER network infrastructure owner has a contract with MnDOT defining their financial share of 
the SUA cost.  MnDOT has prepared and distributed revised proportional stakeholder costs in 
accordance with the SUA cost. ECN will engage in a contract with MnDOT to assume financial 
responsibility for the remaining amount that exceeds MnDOT’s appropriated maintenance fund.  
Once approved by the Department of Administration, the Motorola SUA for 2021-2025 will be formally 
executed.  ECN and MnDOT have made a commitment to Motorola to make every effort to complete 
this on or before November 20, 2020. 
Thank you sincerely for your determination in working together to ensure that we have achieved a 
successful outcome to this lengthy, but critically important initiative for public safety communications in 
Minnesota.   
If you have any questions about this process please contact either Tim Lee at MnDOT (651-234-7963) or 
Jim Stromberg at ECN (651-201-7557). 
ARMER SERVICES and SUA II PRICING 
Detail/Description 
2021 
2022 
2023 
2024 
2025 
Five Year Total 
 
TECHNICAL SUPPORT 
Technical Support is available 7 days a week, 24 hours a day, as defined in Section X. The Motorola System Support Center's staff will work with your local service 
organization or technicians to handle questions related to your Motorola 2-way communications system. If the problem is beyond the scope of the SSC's staff, 
they will contact key personnel who are involved with the design, development, and manufacture of your communication products for resolution. 
Total Technical Support 
$148,759 
$158,040 
$167,490 
$177,135 
$186,964 
$838,388 
 
SERVICES 
Dedicated FSO: Motorola will provide one dedicated field service technician, who is specifically trained and qualified to support the MN Metro/ARMER Radio 
System. The assigned technician will expend his/her full 40-hour workweek performing corrective maintenance on appropriate project work assigned as agreed 
to by Motorola and the System Owners with direction from the MN Metro/ARMER System Administrator. 
Total Dedicated FSO 
$235,286 
$239,992 
$244,791 
$249,700 
$254,689 
$1,224,458 
 
Security Update Service: Security Update Service provides updates of the latest anti-virus definition, intrusion signature files and OS Patches that have been 
pre-tested on a Motorola test system to ensure they do not interfere with radio system functionality. Pre-tested updates will be made available as necessary, 
however, an outbreak of malicious code that is deemed a significant threat to the Astro 25 radio network will cause a priority test cycle to occur which will 
release anti-virus definition updates in a shorter cycle. 
Total Security Update Service 
$61,072 
$62,904 
$64,791 
$66,735 
$68,737 
$324,239 
 
Services Total 
$445,117 
$460,936 
$477,072 
$493,570.00 
$510,390 
$2,387,085 
 
SOFTWARE 
SUA II:  Includes All Software and Hardware as required per contract for upgrades and life cycle replacement, and professional services required for both software 
and hardware implementation. 
SUA II Total 
$5,793,155 
$5,826,843 
$5,861,542 
$5,897,282 
$5,934,093 
$29,312,915 
 
Annual Contract Totals 
$6,238,272 
$6,287,779.00 
$6,338,614 
$6,390,852 
$6,444,483 
$31,700,000 
 
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for Calendar year 2021
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
 MESB
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
MESB
$0.00
Metro Transit
$35,273.63
HCMC
$8,900.16
MRCC East
$6,260.47
Edina
$4,173.65
MAC
$6,587.50
Ridgeview
$5,053.55
St Louis Park
$4,173.65
Bloomington
$5,606.41
Eden Prairie
$18,680.23
U of M
$5,933.44
Anoka County
$87,609.94
Carver County
$30,494.32
Chisago County
$59,756.78
Dakota County
$100,201.77
Hennepin County
$284,852.76
Isanti County
$9,956.04
Ramsey County
$118,088.12
Scott County
$60,660.14
Washington County
$117,299.15
Minneapolis
$78,972.27
Total
$1,048,533.97
State ( Includes any SW users)
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
ARMER Infrastructure (MnDOT)
$4,144,534.09
MnDOT
$12,598.67
State Patrol
$54,857.21
DOC 
$90,223.23
MSOP
$16,643.26
North Memorial
$8,900.16
Allina(Lakeview EMS, New River Ambulance)
$14,179.55
Mayo/Gold Cross
$15,261.82
Sanford
$7,467.40
Total
$4,364,665.40
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for Calendar year 2021
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
Central MN Region
SUAII
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
CM Regional Equipment
$3,846.62
St Cloud
$20,387.23
Stearns County
$56,109.60
Benton County
$5,003.68
Sherburne County
$29,615.89
Wright County
$32,456.49
Kandiyohi County
$18,278.41
Meeker County
$14,003.57
Grant County
$3,997.67
Douglas County
$10,258.14
Stevens County
$3,972.74
Pope County
$4,274.84
Wadena County
$3,293.75
Otter Tail County
$22,324.47
Morrison County 
$12,343.50
Mille Lacs County
$11,589.72
Wilkin County
$6,410.05
Traverse County
$0.00
Big Stone County
$0.00
Todd County
$4,500.68
Swift County
$6,410.05
Total
$269,077.08
South East MN Region
SUAII
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Olmsted County
$28,835.71
Rochester
$0.00
Goodhue County
$40,072.00
Wabasha County
$5,154.73
Winona County
$14,204.48
Houston County
$3,620.78
Fillmore County
$4,274.84
Mower County
$12,922.76
Freeborn County
$20,614.53
Dodge County
$3,620.78
Rice County
$17,546.62
Steele County
$13,875.98
Rice/Steel Dispatch
$19,560.12
Total
$184,303.35
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for Calendar year 2021
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
South Central MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Regional Radio Board
$6,838.27
McLeod County
$12,469.62
Hutchinson
$3,293.75
Sibley County
$10,357.86
Nicollet County
$5,154.73
LeSueur County
$12,318.57
Brown County
$10,709.82
Blue Earth County
$8,121.45
Watonwan Caounty
$3,293.75
Waseca County
$18,628.90
Martin County
$3,947.81
Faribault County
$4,827.70
Total
$99,962.23
South West MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
SW MN Emergency Communications Board
$27,050.98
Murray County
$3,620.78
Laq Qui Parle County
$0.00
Chippewa County
$10,030.83
Renville County
$10,030.83
Yellow Medicine County
$10,357.86
Redwood County
$4,274.84
Lincoln County
$2,740.88
Lyon County
$10,684.89
Pipestone County
$3,947.81
Cottonwood County
$3,947.81
Rock County
$0.00
Nobles County
$3,947.81
Jackson County
$6,410.05
Total
$97,045.37
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for Calendar year 2021
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
North East MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Itasca County
$6,361.66
Kanabec County
$4,173.65
Pine County
$3,947.81
Cass County
$21,343.38
Crow Wing County
$17,397.04
Atkin County
$10,910.73
Koochiching County
$3,293.75
Carlton County
$5,908.51
St Louis County
$48,145.06
City of Duluth
$7,465.93
Lake County
$3,947.81
Cook County
$3,721.97
Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe
$3,620.78
Total
$140,238.08
North West MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Hubbard County
$3,947.81
Polk County 
$5,053.55
Becker County
$5,531.62
Beltrami County
$5,707.60
White Earth
$0.00
Clearwater County
$0.00
Pennington
$3,293.75
RRRDC
$10,208.28
Clay County
$703.92
Cass County ND
$0.00 Under warrenty 2021
Total
$34,446.52
$6,238,272.00
This material is provided as general information and is not a substitute for legal advice. Consult your attorney for advice concerning specific situations. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
145 University Ave. West 
www.lmc.org 
4/22/2020 
Saint Paul, MN 55103-2044 
(651) 281-1200 or (800) 925-1122 
© 2020 All Rights Reserved 
INFORMATION MEMO 
Holding Public Hearings Remotely 
 
 
The COVID-19 public health emergency and Gov. Walz’s Executive Order 20-20 (“Stay Home MN”) 
requires city councils to make alternative meeting plans and still comply with the Open Meeting Law. 
Consult the LMC information memo City Options for Meeting Remotely for a discussion of legal 
requirements and technology options. At the same time, cities must comply with statutes, charter 
provisions, and ordinances requiring public hearings for specific action items, such as land use 
applications, street vacations, or special assessments. This memo suggests strategies for holding 
public hearings while also using remote meeting technology. 
RELEVANT LINKS: 
I. 
Steps for holding remote public hearings 
 
Statutes, charter provisions, and ordinances that require public hearings 
generally assume that the city council, or other city board, are meeting and 
taking public comments in person. There is little direction on how to 
conduct a public hearing when a city board meets remotely. 
 
When meeting remotely, cities have flexibility in how they will take public 
comments. Cites can take comments prior to and during the hearing. Cites 
can require those wishing to address the council during the hearing to sign 
up prior to the hearing. 
 
This memo provides some suggestions for taking public comments while 
holding remote public hearings. For specific advice, cities should work 
closely with their city attorney. 
 
A. Before the public hearing 
 
1. 
Identify the law that requires a public hearing 
 
Public hearing requirements are found in state statutes, home rule charter 
provisions, and city ordinances. Cities should consult those sources directly 
to find the specific procedural requirements that apply for the public hearing 
in question. 
Minn. Stat. § 412.851. 
Here are some actions that require public hearings: 
Minn. Stat. § 414.033, subd. 
2b. 
Minn. Stat. § 429.031, subd. 
1. 
Minn. Stat. § 429.061. 
 
Minn. Stat. § 444.18, subd. 3. 
• Street vacation. 
• Annexation by ordinance.  
• Local improvement projects that will be paid for with special 
assessments. 
• When special assessments are made to property. 
• Purchase and improvement of waterworks, sewers, drains, and storm 
sewers by storm sewer improvement districts.  
RELEVANT LINKS: 
League of Minnesota Cities Information Memo:  
 
4/22/2020  
Holding Public Hearings Remotely 
 
Page 2 
 
 
Minn. Stat. § 469.003, subd. 
2. 
 
Minn. Stat. § 469.093, subd. 
1. 
 
Minn. Stat. § 469.065, subd. 
2. 
Minn. Stat. § 469.105, subd. 
2. 
Minn. Stat. § 469.107, subd. 
2. 
 
Minn. Stat. § 340A.602. 
Minn. Stat. § 275.065, subd. 
6. 
Minn. Stat. § 462.357, subd. 
3. 
Minn. Stat. § 462.358, subd. 
3b. 
Minn. Stat. § 462.3595, subd. 
2. 
Minn. Stat. § 410.12, subd. 7. 
Minn. Stat. § 462.355, subd. 
4. 
• Adoption of a housing redevelopment authority (HRA) enabling 
resolution.  
• Adoption of an economic development authority (EDA) enabling 
resolution.  
• Sale of port authority land.  
• Sale of EDA land. 
• Increase of levy for an EDA. 
• Continuation of a municipal liquor store after a net loss for two 
of three consecutive years. 
• Truth-in-Taxation Law processes. 
• Adoption or amendment of a zoning ordinance. 
• Subdivision applications. 
• Granting of a conditional use permit.  
• Adoption of a charter amendment by ordinance. 
• Certain interim ordinances. 
 
 
Take note of any notice requirements in the applicable statute, charter 
provision, or ordinance. Common notice requirements are publishing and/or 
mailing notice for a specified period prior to the hearing. 
 
Also take note of any timing requirements in the statute, charter provision, 
or ordinance. There may be a deadline for the city council or commission to 
act. 
Minn. Stat. § 15.99, subd. 
2(a). 
Minn. Stat. 462.358, subd. 
3b. 
 
For written requests related to zoning and other land use applications, cities 
generally have 60 days to make a decision. For subdivision applications, 
cities generally have 120 days to make a decision on the preliminary plat. 
Public hearings are required on these issues. Keep this in mind when 
scheduling hearings. If the city does not act by the deadline, the application 
may be automatically approved. 
Minn. Stat. § 13D.021. 
Cities must follow all the requirements of the Open Meeting Law to hold a 
public hearing by telephone or other electronic means. The LMC 
information memo City Options for Meeting Remotely covers these 
requirements and provides template documents the city can use to establish 
the authority to meet remotely. It also provides background information on 
different technology solutions for remote meetings. 
 
2. 
Provide notice of hearing 
 
First, check the applicable statute, charter provision, or ordinance to find out 
the type and method of public notice. Sometimes, specific content is 
required in the notice. 
 
Notice should also include the following, per the Open Meeting Law: 
RELEVANT LINKS: 
League of Minnesota Cities Information Memo:  
 
4/22/2020  
Holding Public Hearings Remotely 
 
Page 3 
 
Minn. Stat. 13D.021, subd. 4. 
• The regular meeting location. 
• The fact that some members may participate by telephone or other 
electronic means. 
• All of the information necessary for the public to monitor the 
meeting from a remote location. This could be a call-in line, access 
code, link, or password that will allow them to monitor the meeting. 
 
Notices should contain clear and complete information on how the city will 
accept public comments and any deadlines for submitting pre-hearing 
comments. All methods the city chooses for accepting comments should be 
clearly communicated to the public. 
 
Consider methods of notice beyond what is legally required. Cities can use 
the city website, newsletters, email subscription lists, or social media to 
provide notice. This ensures that more residents get notice of the hearing and 
have the ability to comment, if desired. 
 
3. 
Taking comments before the hearing 
 
State laws generally don’t provide a specified way of handling public 
comments. 
 
 
Cities should consider taking public comments prior to the public hearing. 
Several methods of comment can be made available, including mail, email, 
or voicemail. The methods should be communicated in the public notice. 
 
Consider a deadline for submitting comments prior to the date of hearing. 
That way, staff have time to prepare and distribute comments to 
councilmembers in time for consideration before the hearing. This may 
provide a cleaner method of taking comment, as the council will have all 
comments available to it before the hearing begins. 
 
All comments received should be attached to the public record and 
maintained by the city pursuant to its records retention schedule. 
 
If it is preferred to hold hearings in person, cities can consider rescheduling 
or delaying public hearings that are not urgent or subject to any deadlines for 
action. It is assumed cities will be able to hold in-person public hearings 
once the pandemic ends. 
 
B. Holding the public hearing 
 
1. 
Taking comments during the hearing 
 
In addition to taking comments prior the hearing, a city board should also 
provide a method to receive public comments during the hearing. Good 
meeting management is essential to ensure an orderly presentation of 
comments to the council. 
RELEVANT LINKS: 
League of Minnesota Cities Information Memo:  
 
4/22/2020  
Holding Public Hearings Remotely 
 
Page 4 
 
 
During the hearing, a staff person controlling the meeting technology 
platform can control who can talk at what time, and call on persons as they 
come up on the agenda to speak. 
 
Alternatively, the city board can require that those wishing to make 
comments during the meeting make an appointment to do so. The staff 
person controlling the meeting technology then gives those persons a 
number to call or an invitation to join the meeting at a certain time. The staff 
person can also call on persons based on their appointments. 
 
Minn. Stat. 13D.021, subd. 4. 
 
If time allows, a city can continue a public hearing to a future time. Doing so 
will allow additional time for the public to provide input based on the 
information presented at the original hearing. 
 
2. 
Making a good record 
 
All comments received prior to the hearing should be distributed to 
councilmembers or board members and made part of the public hearing 
record. Cities may want to acknowledge receipt of comments made prior to 
the hearing to ensure that people know their comments were received. 
 
During the meeting, presiding officers may want to reiterate that all 
comments received prior to the hearing were distributed to all 
councilmembers. All comments received during the hearing should be 
distributed to all councilmembers. 
 
All comments received should be maintained in the city’s records and 
maintained per the city’s records retention schedule. Comments will likely 
be classified as public data per the Minnesota Government Data Practices 
Act. Cities should have an orderly process for collecting and maintaining all 
comments in the event someone makes a data request for this information. 
 
II. Conclusion 
 
Cities are still required to have public hearings when required by state law, 
charter provision, or ordinance. Cities should ensure that they comply with 
all notice requirements of the law that mandates the public hearing as well as 
the Open Meeting Law. Notices should also include all of the information 
needed for residents to make comments regarding the public hearing. 
 
Cities should be guided by the goals of providing as much notice as possible 
and flexibility in the methods by which they will receive public comments 
for the hearing. 
 
From:
Gieseke, Shari
To:
Micah Myers; Larson, Brandon; Lahr, Kristen
Subject:
Teams Chat Moderator to help with Attendance and Voting?
Date:
Friday, June 5, 2020 9:42:34 AM
Attachments:
image013.png
image014.png
O&O Role Call - May 2020.pdf
Users Role Call - May 2020.pdf
image001.png
image002.png
image003.png
image008.png
Central Region, I have a couple of observations and requests for virtual meetings going forward. Assigning a Teams Chat
Moderator would alleviate most of my concerns.
 
Chat does not appear in Teams Recordings
FYI: I am not finding a way for ‘Chat’ to appear in the meeting recordings. The meeting recording is what we would
supply for a Data Request. I read that ‘Chat’ has to be exported by Admins, so the Regional Coordinator team would
have to escalate such requests to IT Techs.
 
REQUEST: Attendance Standard Policy
Voiced on the Recording = Attendance
Can we make it a policy going forward that for people to be counted in the meetings (especially that count towards the
Attendance Standard) that someone has to voice on the recording that those individuals are on? If everything is voiced
in the meeting recording, then we would have a complete recording for data purposes.
 
Voiced on the Recording = Roll Call Voting Response
If the Committee member is making their vote via Chat, then a moderator should be speaking their vote on the
recording. I do not think it is safe for myself to go back to the Chat window to try to guess the time of the vote when the
corresponding question is not written in Chat.
 
Non-Committee Members confirming a Committee member’s attendance
FYI, Stephanie has two accounts where she has said the Committee members are on when she’s not a Committee
member on those Committees. I’m curious what the Robert’s Rules responsibilities are for a Committee member
regarding their attendance.
 
REQUEST: Teams Chat Moderator
Can we please assign a Teams Chat Moderator? Every webinar that I have been on has a moderator who asks the
questions from Chat. It has not been working super well to have the active meeting participants responsible to watch
Chat (See Chat images below). I cannot be trying to do four things at the same time trying to listen and type a meeting
while reading and thinking about Chat. We already have a situation where the recording did not get started on time, so I
must be focused on my job of recording the minutes. I would suggest the Vice Chairs monitor the Chat, or assign
someone else if they are busy with meeting responsibilities.
 
These individuals were missed from the Chair’s Roll Call (Attached):
Stephanie, a non-member was chatting at 10:04 a.m. that Josh Case was on, but Stephanie first voiced that Josh Case
was on during Guest Roll Call, so it did not make the User’s Roll Call list.
 
Jody was not voiced on Roll Call, but the group “discovered” that she was on 39 minutes into the meeting when Ace
typed in Chat:
 
I saw Tina’s Chat and I announced Jon during Guest Roll Call, so he did make the Roll Call list.
 
Shari Gieseke
I.T. Admin Support Technician
400 2nd St. So.
St. Cloud, MN  56301
(320) 650-3301
shari.gieseke@ci.stcloud.mn.us
 
 
For the latest COVID-19 information visit https://www.ci.stcloud.mn.us/COVID19
 
 
 
 
From: Lahr, Kristen <Kristen.Lahr@co.stearns.mn.us> 
Sent: Thursday, May 21, 2020 3:45 PM
To: Gieseke, Shari <Shari.Gieseke@ci.stcloud.mn.us>; Micah Myers <Micah.Myers@ci.stcloud.mn.us>
Cc: Larson, Brandon <Brandon.Larson@ci.stcloud.mn.us>
Subject: RE: NG911 too ---RE: O&O/User 2020 Membership Lists for Roll Call
 
The Sender "Lahr, Kristen" is external to the St. Cloud email system.  Use caution when replying and opening
attachments/hyperlinks.  St. Cloud IT Dept.
I think we can believe them.   For the most part they are both in the same room when this happens. 
I really think that most people just don’t enjoy speaking on conference calls.   It’s hard and
awkward and people do their best.   We can always tighten things up as we go if we see a need. 
 
No sweat if I’m over ruled on this though.
 
Kristen Lahr
o:  320.259.3727 | m:  320.290.9151
 
From: Gieseke, Shari <Shari.Gieseke@ci.stcloud.mn.us> 
Sent: Thursday, May 21, 2020 3:05 PM
To: Lahr, Kristen <Kristen.Lahr@co.stearns.mn.us>; Micah Myers <Micah.Myers@ci.stcloud.mn.us>
Cc: Larson, Brandon <Brandon.Larson@ci.stcloud.mn.us>
Subject: NG911 too ---RE: O&O/User 2020 Membership Lists for Roll Call
 
I’m listening to the NG911 Committee call and I’m thinking the same incident occurred. It really sounds like it was
CENTRAL MN OWNERS AND OPERATORS COMMITTEE
Current Membership (5/14/2020)
Name
Title
Agency/Company
Status
Present
Members and Alternates
Larson, Brandon
Radio Programmer
City of St. Cloud
Delegate
Myers, Micah
IT Director
City of St. Cloud
Alternate
Fraley, Julie
Divisions Supervisor
Benton County
Delegate
Burski, John
Network & Systems Administrator
Benton County
Alternate
Brown, Mark
Sheriff
Big Stone County
Delegate
Kandiyohi County
See Kandiyohi County Rep
Big Stone County
Alternate
Egan, Tom
Communications Supervisor
Douglas County
Delegate
Smith, Kevin
Dispatcher
Douglas County
Alternate
Wendt, Jason
System Admin/Dispatch/Records
Grant County
Delegate
Combs, Jon
Chief Deputy
Grant County
Alternate
Bonnema, Ace
Emergency Mngmt Deputy Director
Kandiyohi County
Delegate
Norstegard, Jody
Communication Supervisor
Kandiyohi County
Alternate
Cruze, Brian
Sheriff
Meeker County
Delegate
Celander, Randy
Communication Specialist
Meeker County
Alternate
Beckstrom, Andy
PSAP Manager
Mille Lacs County
Delegate
Erikson, Bret
Sheriff Deputy
Mille Lacs County
Alternate
Ingram-MacKissock, Victoria Emer Mgt/Comm Supervisor
Morrison County
Delegate
Holman, Jane
Lead Dispatcher
Morrison County
Alternate
Karlgaard, Jason
Dispatch Supervisor
Otter Tail County
Delegate
Vandyke, Keith
Administrative Lt
Otter Tail County
Alternate
Page 1
CENTRAL MN OWNERS AND OPERATORS COMMITTEE
Current Membership (5/14/2020)
Name
Title
Agency/Company
Status
Present
Members and Alternates (Continued)
Brecht, Nathan
Chief Deputy
Pope County
Delegate
Riley, Tim
Sheriff
Pope County
Alternate
Kristen Lahr
System Support Specialist
Stearns County
Delegate
Lieser, Mary
Public Safety Services Supervisor
Stearns County
Alternate
Greiner, Dona
Emergency Mngmt Director
Stevens County
Delegate
Koehler, Brian
Dispatch Manager
Stevens County
Alternate
McGeary, Bill
Emergency Manager
Swift County
Delegate
Holtz, John
Sheriff
Swift County
Alternate
Booker, Sarah
Dispatch Supervisor
Todd County
Delegate
Wisniewski, Michael
Emergency Mgmt/MIS
Todd County
Alternate
Siegel, Lynn
Emergency Manager
Traverse County
Delegate
Wright, Trevor
Sheriff
Traverse County
Alternate
Wheeler, Tyler
Emergency Manager
Wadena County
Delegate
Savaloja, Bryan
Deputy
Wadena County
Alternate
Fiedler, Rick
Sheriff
Wilkin County
Delegate
Porter, Billijo
PSAP Manager
Wilkin County
Alternate
Hansen, Seth
Deputy Director of EM
Wright County
Delegate
Dubois, Haley
Dispatch Supervisor
Wright County
Alternate
Page 2
CENTRAL MN USER COMMITTEE  (JOINT WITH OWNERS AND OPERATORS)
Current Membership (Revised 5/14/2020)
PLEASE REVIEW YOUR INFORMATION, MAKE ANY CHANGES IF NECESSARY AND INITIAL UNDER "PRESENT" COLUMN.
IF YOU ARE NOT ON THE LIST, PLEASE ADD YOUR NAME AND INFORMA
 
 
 
 
Entity
Name
Title
Agency
Representing
Discipline
Present
MEMBERS
Wrobbel, Dean
Fire Chief
St. Cloud Fire Department
City of St. Cloud
Fire Service
Furan Super,Jennifer Assoc. Director of Public Safety
St. Cloud State University
City of St. Cloud
Public Safety
Zabinski, Tom
Public Works Maintenance Superviso
St. Cloud Public Works
City of St. Cloud
Public Works
Williams, Steve
IT and Data Manager
Metro Bus
City of St. Cloud
Transit Authority
Schmidt, Jaime
Security & Safety Supervisor
CentraCare St. Cloud HospitaCity of St. Cloud
EMS
Fraley, Julie
Divisions Supervisor
Benton County Sheriff's OfficBenton County
Law Enf.
Beise, Perry
Police Chief
Sauk Rapids Police
Benton County
Law Enf.
Fleming, Jason
Fire Marshall
Sauk Rapids Fire
Benton County
Fire Service
OPEN
Benton County
OPEN
Benton County
Brown, Mark
Sheriff
Big Stone County
Big Stone County
Law Enf.
Maatz, John
Deputy Sheriff
Big Stone County
Big Stone County
Law Enf.
Kandiyohi County
See Kandiyohi County Rep
Kandiyohi County
Big Stone County
Dispatch
OPEN
Big Stone County
OPEN
Big Stone County
Henrion, Mike
Dispatcher
Douglas County
Douglas County
Dispatch
Smith, Kevin
Dispatcher
Douglas County
Douglas County
Dispatch
CENTRAL MN USER COMMITTEE  (JOINT WITH OWNERS AND OPERATORS)
Current Membership (Revised 5/14/2020)
PLEASE REVIEW YOUR INFORMATION, MAKE ANY CHANGES IF NECESSARY AND INITIAL UNDER "PRESENT" COLUMN.
IF YOU ARE NOT ON THE LIST, PLEASE ADD YOUR NAME AND INFORMA
 
 
 
 
Entity
Name
Title
Agency
Representing
Discipline
Present
MEMBERS
OPEN
Douglas County
OPEN 
Douglas County
OPEN
Douglas County
Lindquist, Tina
Grant County Emergency Manager
Grant County
Grant County
EM
Wendt, Jason
Dispatcher/Records
Grant County
Grant County
Dispatch
Grant County
Grant County
OPEN
Grant County
Norstegard, Jody
Communications Supervisor
Kandiyohi County Sheriff's OKandiyohi County
Dispatch
Bonnema, Ace
Emergency Mngmt Deputy Director Kandiyohi County Emerg Mg Kandiyohi County
Emerg Mgmt
Pattison, Keith
EMS
Carris Health
Kandiyohi County
EMS
Hanson, Frank
Fire/EMS
Willmar Fire Department
Kandiyohi County
Fire Service
Felt, Jim
Police/EMS
Willmar Police Department
Kandiyohi County
Law Enf.
Celander, Randy
Communications Specialist
Meeker County
Meeker County
Technical
Christianson, Rich
Dispatcher
Meeker County
Meeker County
Dispatcher
Miller, Sara
Detective
Meeker County Sheriff's OfficMeeker County
Law Enf.
CENTRAL MN USER COMMITTEE  (JOINT WITH OWNERS AND OPERATORS)
Current Membership (Revised 5/14/2020)
PLEASE REVIEW YOUR INFORMATION, MAKE ANY CHANGES IF NECESSARY AND INITIAL UNDER "PRESENT" COLUMN.
IF YOU ARE NOT ON THE LIST, PLEASE ADD YOUR NAME AND INFORMA
 
 
 
 
Entity
Name
Title
Agency
Representing
Discipline
Present
MEMBERS
Case, Josh
Deputy
Litchfield Fire
Meeker County
Law Enf.
OPEN
Meeker County
Hunt, Brad
Captain/Jail Admin
Mille Lacs County
Mille Lacs County
Law Enf.
Erickson, Bret
Sheriff's Deputy
Mille Lacs County
Mille Lacs County
Law Enf.
Beckstrom, Andy
PSAP Manager
Mille Lacs County
Mille Lacs County
Dispatch
OPEN
Mille Lacs County
OPEN
Mille Lacs County
Ingram-MacKissock, Victoria Emergency Mgt/Communications SuMorrison County
Morrison County
Emerg Mgmt
Holman, Jane
Lead Dispatcher
Morrison County
Morrison County
Dispatch
Boone, Pat
Fire Emergency Service's CoordinatoCamp Ripley
Morrison County
EMS
Nieman, Mike
Fire Chief
Little Falls Fire
Morrison County
Fire Service
Seelen, Craig
Police Officer
Little Falls Police Dept
Morrison County
Law Enf.
Karlgaard, Jason
Dispatch Supervisor
Otter Tail County
Otter Tail County
Dispatch
Lange, Michael
Deputy Sheriff
Otter Tail County
Otter Tail County
Law Enf.
Ebeling, Mark
Director of EMS
Perham Health
Otter Tail County
EMS
Picchiarini, Marco
Dispatcher
Otter Tail County
Otter Tail County
Dispatch
CENTRAL MN USER COMMITTEE  (JOINT WITH OWNERS AND OPERATORS)
Current Membership (Revised 5/14/2020)
PLEASE REVIEW YOUR INFORMATION, MAKE ANY CHANGES IF NECESSARY AND INITIAL UNDER "PRESENT" COLUMN.
IF YOU ARE NOT ON THE LIST, PLEASE ADD YOUR NAME AND INFORMA
 
 
 
 
Entity
Name
Title
Agency
Representing
Discipline
Present
MEMBERS
OPEN
Otter Tail County
Law Enf.
Riley, Tim
Sheriff
Pope County
Pope County
Law Enf.
Brecht, Nathan
Chief Deputy
Pope County
Pope County
Law Enf.
OPEN
Pope County
OPEN
Pope County
OPEN
Pope County
McIntyre, Paul
Chair of Committee
Mayo Clinic Ambulance
Stearns County
EMS
Lahr, Kristen
System Support Specialist
Stearns County
Stearns County
Technical
Hughes, Jim
Police Chief
Sartell Police
Stearns County
Law Enf.
Tufte, Erin
Emergency Manager
Stearns County
Stearns County
Emerg Mgmt
Burke, Michele
Stearns County Sheriff's Office
Stearns County
Stearns County
PSAP
Dingman, Jason
Sheriff
Stevens County Sheriff's Offic
Stevens County
Law Enf.
Greiner, Dona
Emergency Mgmt Director
Stevens County Sheriff's Offic
Stevens County
Emerg Mgmt
Koehler, Brian
Dispatch Manager
University of Morris
Stevens County
Dispatch
Fischer, Josh
Ambulance Director
Stevens County Ambulance SStevens County
EMS
Howe, Justin
Morris Police Department
Stevens County
Fire Service
CENTRAL MN USER COMMITTEE  (JOINT WITH OWNERS AND OPERATORS)
Current Membership (Revised 5/14/2020)
PLEASE REVIEW YOUR INFORMATION, MAKE ANY CHANGES IF NECESSARY AND INITIAL UNDER "PRESENT" COLUMN.
IF YOU ARE NOT ON THE LIST, PLEASE ADD YOUR NAME AND INFORMA
 
 
 
 
Entity
Name
Title
Agency
Representing
Discipline
Present
MEMBERS
Holtz, John
Sheriff
Swift County Sheriff's Office Swift County
Law Enf.
Lee, Rob
Swift County IT
Swift County IT
Swift County
IT
McGeary, Bill
Emergency Manager
Swift County EMS
Swift County
EM
Schreck, Mark
Benson Fire
Swift County
Fire Service
OPEN
Swift County
Booker, Sarah
Dispatch Supervisor
Todd County Sheriff's Office Todd County
Dispatch
Wisniewski, Michae Emergency Manager
Todd County Emergency ManTodd County
Emerg Mgmt
Todd County
Todd County
Todd County
Siegel, Lynn
Emergency Manager
Traverse County
Traverse County
Emerg. Mgr.
Wright, Trevor
Sheriff
Traverse County
Traverse County
Law Enf.
Bock, Lee
Wheaton FD
Traverse County
Fire Service
OPEN
Traverse County
OPEN
Traverse County
Savaloja, Bryan
Sergeant
Wadena County Sheriff's OffiWadena County
Law Enf.
CENTRAL MN USER COMMITTEE  (JOINT WITH OWNERS AND OPERATORS)
Current Membership (Revised 5/14/2020)
PLEASE REVIEW YOUR INFORMATION, MAKE ANY CHANGES IF NECESSARY AND INITIAL UNDER "PRESENT" COLUMN.
IF YOU ARE NOT ON THE LIST, PLEASE ADD YOUR NAME AND INFORMA
 
 
 
 
Entity
Name
Title
Agency
Representing
Discipline
Present
MEMBERS
Wheeler, Tyler
Deputy
Wadena County Sheriff's OffiWadena County
Law Enf.
Weniger, Donald
Firefighter
Verndale Fire Department
Wadena County
Fire Service/EMS
OPEN
Wadena County
OPEN 
Wadena County
Fiedler, Rick
Sheriff
Wilkin County Sheriff's Offic Wilkin County
Law Enf.
Porter, Billijo
PSAP Manager
Wilkin County   
Wilkin County
Law Enf.
OPEN
Wilkin County
OPEN
Wilkin County
OPEN
Wilkin County
Hansen, Seth
Deputy Director of EM
Wright County Sheriff's OfficWright County
Emerg. Mgr.
Dubois, Haley
Dispatch Supervisor
Wright County Sheriff's OfficWright County
Dispatch
Ward, Richard
Deputy Director of EM
Wright County Sheriff's OfficWright County
Emerg. Mgr.
Nevala, Richard
Dispatcher 
Wright County Sheriff's OfficWright County
Dispatch
Vanlith, Bob
Wright County
Fire Service
Greater Minnesota Regional Radio Board  
Statewide Radio Board Member Selection 
SECB Standard 8.1.0 
Approval 11/30/2017 
 
1 
Allied Radio Matrix for Emergency Response  
Standards, Protocols, Procedures 
 
 
Document Section 8 
Miscellaneous 
Status: Complete 
 
SECB Standard Number 
GOV-3 
Legacy Standard Number 
8.1.0 
Standard Title 
Greater Minnesota Regional 
ESB/ECB Statewide 
Emergency Communications 
Board Member Selection 
Date Established 
10/01/2010 
SECB Approval: 11/30/2017 
Replaces Document Dated 
01/24/201108/10/2017 
Date Revised/Reviewed 
08/10/201705/04/2020 
 
1.  Purpose or Objective 
 
The purpose of this standard is to define the process for selecting a regional radio 
representative to serve on the Statewide Emergency Communications Board (SECB) 
representing Regional Emergency Services/Emergency Communications Boards (ESB/ECBs) 
in greater Minnesota. 
 
2.  Technical Background 
 
 Capabilities 
 Constraints 
 
3.  Operational Context 
 
The formation of the SECB included a member intended to represent rRegional ESB/ECBs in 
Greater Minnesota. The SECB is charged with coordinating the appointment process to ensure 
representation from throughout the state. 
 
All regions of the state have been defined; rRegional ESB/ECBs are established and functioning 
providing regional governance in every region. The following list includes the defined regions 
in Greater Minnesota, their membership, and date of organization. 
 
Greater Minnesota Region  
                              Represents  
   Formed: 
Central Minnesota Regional ESB 
 
        19 counties & 1 city 
 June 7, 2007 
Northwest Minnesota Regional ECB 
        14 counties & 1 city 
February 8, 2008 
Southeast Minnesota Regional ECB                      11 counties & 1 city         April 16, 2008 
Southwest Minnesota Regional ECB                     13 counties & 2 cities     September 18, 2008 
South Central Minnesota Regional ECB               10 counties & 2 cities     September 30, 2008 
Northeast Minnesota Regional ECB                      11 counties & 4 cities     December 17, 2008 
 
Greater Minnesota Regional Radio Board  
Statewide Radio Board Member Selection 
SECB Standard 8.1.0 
Approval 11/30/2017 
 
2 
The Central Minnesota Regional ESB was the first Regional Radio Board formed.  They 
appointed a member and alternate to serve on the SECB in June 2007. After all regions 
constituted boards, regional leadership from Greater Minnesota began discussions to create a 
process for the rotation of representation to ensure that all regions of the state had equal and 
appropriate opportunity to serve on the SECB representing the interests of Greater Minnesota. 
This standard has been approved by the Regional Advisory Committees (RACs) and Regional 
ESB/ECBs representing all regions in Greater Minnesota. 
 
4.  Recommended Protocol/ Standard 
 
The Regional ESB/ECBs in Greater Minnesota will have the responsibility to select both 
alternate and primary SECB representatives in rotation, based on seniority by date of their 
Board’s formation.  
 
• In year one, the senior Board shall select a member to serve as a member of the SECB. 
The next senior Board shall select a member to serve as alternate.  
• In year two, the alternate from the previous year would serve as an SECB member 
representing Greater Minnesota ESB/ECBs, and the next senior board would select a 
member to serve as an alternate. 
  
If an alternate is not available to serve for any reason (i.e., Regional ESB/ECB term expiration, 
resignation, etc.) the appointing Regional ESB/ECB is responsible for appointing a member 
to serve. An ESB/ECB may select, by majority vote, to waive their right to serve.  
 
If a Regional ESB/ECB representing a Greater Minnesota region determines not to appoint 
an alternate for their appointment period, the next Board in rotation shall make the 
appointment. The Board waiving their right to serve shall again be considered for service on 
the next full rotation of the seniority list. The rotation will continue until all Boards selecting 
to serve have had the opportunity. When the least senior Board has completed the selection 
process, the next selection shall start again at the top of the list. 
 
Since the Central Minnesota Regional ECB has appointed a member to serve since its 
formation, this process will start with the next senior Regional ESB/ECB for the first rotation.  
 
5.  Recommended Procedure 
 
 The schedule defining the rotation of appointments to serve as a member and alternate 
of the SECB representing ESB/ECBs in Greater Minnesota shall be: 
 
 
Greater Minnesota Regional Radio Board  
Statewide Radio Board Member Selection 
SECB Standard 8.1.0 
Approval 11/30/2017 
 
3 
Service 
Year 
Service 
Year 
Service 
Year 
Primary 
Appointment 
Alternate 
Appointment 
20102028 20162034 
2022 
Central 
Northwest 
20112029 20172035 
2023 
Northwest 
Southeast 
20122030 20182036 
2024 
Southeast 
Southwest 
20132031 20192037 
2025 
Southwest 
South Central 
20142032 
2020 
2026 
South Central 
Northeast 
20152033 
2021 
2027 
Northeast 
Central 
 
 
 The term of service as an SECB member or alternate representing Greater Minnesota 
Regional ESB/ECBs shall be one year, commencing with the first meeting in January and 
ending with the last meeting in December, or until replaced by a duly- appointed 
replacement, in accordance with this SECB Standard.  
 
 The chair of the Regional ESB/ECB responsible for the appointment of a primary 
member to serve on the SECB representing Greater Minnesota Regional ESB/ECBs shall 
notify the chair of the SECB of the appointment. The notification shall include all contact 
information required to ensure proper and adequate notification of meeting schedules, 
location, agendas, and other required and relevant information. The Chair of the 
Regional ESB/ECB shall make every reasonable effort to ensure notification is 
completed no later than December 15 of the year prior to the appointment year. 
 
 The chair of the Regional ESB/ECB responsible for the appointment of an alternate to 
serve on the SECB representing Greater Minnesota Regional ESB/ECBs shall notify the 
chair of the SECB of the appointment. The notification shall include all contact 
information required to ensure proper and adequate notification of meeting schedules, 
location, agendas, and other required and relevant information. The chair of the 
Regional ESB/ECB shall make every reasonable effort to ensure notification is 
completed no later than December 15 of the year prior to the appointment year. 
 
 The chair of the Regional ESB/ECB responsible for the appointment of a member or 
alternate to serve on the SECB representing Greater Minnesota Regional ESB/ECBs 
where the Regional ESB/ECB has waived its right to appoint shall notify the Chair of the 
SECB no later than December 15 of the year prior to the appointment year. The Chair of 
the SECB shall notify the Chair of the next Regional ESB/ECB in rotation and coordinate 
their appointment process to ensure timely and effective appointment of replacements. 
 
 The SECB shall extend or adjust the schedule in this standard as required by expiration 
or waiver of appointment. 
Greater Minnesota Regional Radio Board  
Statewide Radio Board Member Selection 
SECB Standard 8.1.0 
Approval 11/30/2017 
 
4 
6.  Management 
 
The SECB is responsible for the management of this process. 
DATE:        May 6, 2020 
TO:             All RAC Chairs 
FROM:       Cathy Anderson, Standards & Training Coordinator 
RE:              Standard for consideration 
The Standards workgroup has reviewed the following standard and recommended that each region review it 
and provide their feedback before it goes to the Steering Committee.   
PLEASE INCLUDE IT IN YOUR NEXT REGIONAL MEETING (RAC, O/O, Users, etc.) AND LET ME KNOW THE 
OUTCOME, INCLUDING ANY FEEDBACK, FROM YOUR REGION AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.  TARGET DATE IS MAY 
31, BUT LET ME KNOW IF YOUR REGION WILL NOT BE MEETING IN MAY (or if they already met).   
8.1.0 – Greater Minnesota Regional ESB / ECB Statewide Emergency Communications Board Member 
Selection 
This standard explains how selection occurs for regional representatives and defines their rotation of 
appointments to serve as a member and alternate of the SECB.  
The workgroup’s changes include:  
 
Purpose / Objective: 
• Removed the word radio, as regional boards are no longer exclusively for radio and have a broader 
spectrum of SECB standards.  
 
Operational Context: 
• Removed the “Represents” column so as not to have to make changes every time a region adds or 
loses an entity.  Additionally, if listing, it should be consistent with the signatories on each region’s JPA 
and would have to list them all. 
• Workgroup felt it is not necessary to know how many are represented and that this particular historical 
information is not needed.   
• The Workgroup felt it was important to call out that this standard goes to regions prior to going to the 
SECB.  
 
Recommended Procedure: 
• Service Year table was updated based on scheduled rotation through 2037.  
