 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MPO TECHNICAL COMMITTEE 
AGENDA 
 
 
June 10, 2020 
10:00 a.m. 
 
 
 
Revised Venue: FMPO Office 
100 West Broadway, 2nd Floor 
Farmington, New Mexico 
 
 
 
AGENDA 
FARMINGTON METROPOLITAN PLANNING ORGANIZATION 
TECHNICAL COMMITTEE MEETING 
June 10, 2020   10:00 AM 
 
This regular meeting will be held at the MPO Office, 100 West Broadway, 2nd Floor, 
Farmington, New Mexico. 
 
ITEM 
PAGE
1. Call to Order: Call meeting to order
2. Minutes: Approve the minutes from the May 20, 2020 Technical Committee 
Meeting 
51-68
3. MTP Update: Presentation on the development of the MTP
Presented by: Aaron Sussman, Planner, Bohannan Huston 
1
4. FFY2021-2022 UPWP: Review the proposed FFY2021-2022 Unified Planning 
Work Program (UPWP) and Policy Committee Resolution #2020-2 
a. Review the final proposed FFY2021-2022 UPWP 
b. Hold a public hearing on the proposed FFY2021-2022 UPWP 
c. Consider recommending approval to the Policy Committee of the 
proposed FFY2021-2022 UPWP and Policy Committee Resolution #2020-2 
Presented by: Peter Koeppel 
2-4
5. Revisions to JPA and Committee Bylaws
a. Review the proposed changes to the JPA and Committee Bylaws 
b. Hold a public hearing on the proposed changes to the JPA and 
Committee Bylaws 
c. Consider recommending approval to the Policy Committee of the 
proposed changes to the JPA and Committee Bylaws  
Presented by: Beth Escobar 
5-39
6. Letter of Support – Trail of the Ancients Byway: Review and consider 
recommending approval to the Policy Committee for Policy Committee Chair 
signature. 
Presented by: Beth Escobar  
40-44
7. TIP Project Updates from Technical Committee Members: Members will 
provide updates on their TIP projects. 
45-46
8. Reports from NMDOT  
     a. Update from District 5 (Javier Martinez) 
     b. Update from the Planning Bureau (Joseph Moriarty) 
9. Committee Member Discussion Item(s)
No items were presented for inclusion on the agenda. 
47
10. Information Items 
a. City of Farmington’s Off Road Vehicle Trail Head Map   
Presented by: Beth Escobar 
48-49
11. Business from Chairman, Members and Staff
12. Public Comment on Any Issues Not on the Agenda
13. Adjournment 
 
The public body may only take action on an item if it is 
listed for action on the publicly noticed agenda. 
 
 
The public is invited to participate in this GoTo Meeting: 
 
By using a computer, tablet or smartphone: 
https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/250701197 
or by dialing: 1 (669) 224-3412 and entering access code: 250-701-197 
 
 
ATTENTION PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:  If you are an individual with a disability who is in 
need of a reader, amplifier, qualified sign language interpreter, or any other form of auxiliary aid 
or service to attend or participate in the hearing or meeting, please contact the MPO 
Administrative Assistant at the Downtown Center, 100 W Broadway, Farmington, New Mexico or 
at 505-599-1466 at least one week prior to the meeting or as soon as possible.  Public 
documents, including the agenda and minutes, can be provided in various accessible formats.  
Please contact the MPO Administrative Assistant if a summary or other type of accessible format 
is needed. 
 
 
 
FARMINGTON METROPOLITAN PLANNING ORGANIZATION 
Agenda Item #3 
 
 
 
Subject: 
Report on the 2045 Metropolitan Transportation 
Plan (MTP) Update 
Date: 
June 10, 2020
 
 
 
 
MONTHLY REPORT
 
Mr. Aaron Sussman, Planner with Bohannan Huston (BHI) will call-in monthly with a 
report on the Metropolitan Transportation Plan (MTP) Update. 
 
 
1
FARMINGTON METROPOLITAN PLANNING ORGANIZATION 
Agenda Item #4 
 
 
 
Subject: 
FFY2021-2022 Proposed Unified Planning Work 
Program (UPWP) 
Prepared by: 
Peter Koeppel MPO Officer
Date: 
June 10, 2020
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
The Unified Planning Work Program (UPWP) is the MPO’s work plan for two 
federal fiscal years. The UPWP pairs the MPO’s required work tasks/products with 
the MPO’s anticipated funding.  
 
The FFY2021-2022 UPWP will cover planning activities and work products to be 
completed from October 1, 2020 to September 30, 2022. 
 
Based on the Planning Procedures Manual (PPM), the MPO needs to provide a draft 
UPWP to NMDOT in late April, receive input/corrections from NMDOT by June 1 
(NMDOT comments have been incorporated), and obtain the approvals by the 
Committees in June, before submitting the final version to NMDOT before July 1.  
 
Both the Committees reviewed the proposed FFY2021-2022 UPWP during their May 
2020 meetings.  
 
A 30-day public comment period was noticed from May 24, 2020 to June 22, 2020 
 
Page 9 of the document outlines the five major work program tasks for the MPO; 
these tasks are based on a format provided by NMDOT. Subtasks are listed below. 
You should be aware that the same numbering system is utilized in the MPO’s 
quarterly invoicing system and in our financial reports, including the Annual 
Performance & Expenditure Report (APER), which we prepare and submit at the 
end of every FFY. 
 
CURRENT WORK
 
Annual activities in the UPWP include administering the MPO’s programs, TIP 
development and management, development of performance measures, GIS 
activities, Safe Routes to School activities, transit data collection and mapping. 
 
Major activities for the FFY2021-2022 UPWP will include the implementing the 
policies of the 2045 Metropolitan Transportation Plan, land-use and transportation 
planning support activities, transportation performance management, and travel 
demand modeling updates.   
 
Per NMDOT direction, staff projects that FHWA PL funds of $244,019.97 and FTA 
5303 funds of $74,386.25 (both including local matches) for each of the two (2) 
federal fiscal years will be available. These numbers are subject to change.  
 
ANTICIPATED WORK
 
Hold a public hearing on the proposed FFY2021-2022 UPWP and Policy Committee 
Resolution 2020-2. 
 
Seek final approval of the FFY2021-2022 UPWP and Policy Committee Resolution 
#2020-2 by the Policy Committee at the June 25, 2020 meeting. 
 
 
2
ATTACHMENTS
 
Current draft of the 2021-2022 UPWP will be provided to the members in a 
separate email and can also be downloaded by clicking the following link: 
https://www.fmtn.org/DocumentCenter/View/21716/FFY2021-2022-UPWP---
Final-Draft 
 
Policy Committee Resolution #2020-2 
 
 
ACTION ITEM
 
Staff recommends that the Technical Committee consider recommending approval 
to the Policy Committee of the proposed FFY2021-2022 UPWP and Policy 
Committee Resolution #2020-2. 
 
 
 
3
4
FARMINGTON METROPOLITAN PLANNING ORGRANIZATION 
Agenda Item #5 
 
 
 
Subject: 
Review ILQDOGUDIWV oI the Joint 
Powers Agreement (JPA) and Committee 
Bylaws and Operating Procedures proposals 
Prepared by: 
Beth Escobar, AICP, Community Works 
Planning Manager 
Date: 
June 10, 2020 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
The cities of Aztec, Bloomfield, and Farmington, and San Juan County formed 
and have participated in the Metropolitan Planning Organization through the 
Joint Powers Agreement (JPA) since 2003; Kirtland was added to the FMPO in 
June 2018. 
 
Recommended changes include: cleanup of both documents, clarification in 
the Bylaws of the attendance requirements for committee members, changing 
the annual elections for the Policy Committee to January and also adding an 
option to hold virtual meetings when necessitated by health concerns to the 
committee bylaws. The JPA is being amended to reflect the City of Farmington 
as the Fiscal Agent and the estimated population numbers have been updated. 
 
Comments from the May 20th Technical Committee meeting and the May 28th 
Policy Committee meeting have been incorporated into the draft. 
 
 
CURRENT WORK 
 
The 30-day public review period was posted on May 24, 2020.  
 
Action on the JPA and the Committee Bylaws documents will be sought by 
both committees in June. 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS 
 
A clean copy of the JPA and the Committee Bylaws is attached. 
 
Red-lined versions of the JPA and the Committee Bylaws documents will be 
sent in a separate email. 
 
 
ANTICIPATED WORK 
 
Seek final approval of the JPA and Committee Bylaws by the Policy 
Committee on June 25. 
 
It is anticipated that the final JPA and Committee Bylaws will be considered 
for approval by the MPO Policy Committee on June 25, 2020. If approved 
then, consideration of the proposed JPA by the boards, councils, or 
commissions of the individual member entities will be scheduled in July. 
Upon completion of the adoption process, the JPA will be sent to the NM 
Department of Finance and Administration for State Review/Approval.   
 
 
5
 
ACTION ITEM 
 
Staff recommends that the Technical Committee consider recommending 
approval of the JPA and Committee Bylaws to the Policy Committee. 
 
 
APPLICABLE CITATIONS 
 
23 U.S. Code § 134 - Metropolitan transportation planning 
 
23 CFR 450.310 - Metropolitan planning organization designation and re-
designation 
 
23 CFR 450.314 - Metropolitan planning agreements 
 
23 U.S. Code § 134 - Metropolitan transportation planning 
 
Joint Powers Agreement Act, being Sections 11-1-1 et. Seq., NMSA 1978, as 
amended. 
 
NMDOT Planning Procedures Manual, Metropolitan Planning Organizations, 
Internal Structure, pages 46-48 
 
 
 
6
 
1 
 
 
Joint Powers Agreement 
 
Between the Cities of Aztec, Bloomfield, Farmington, the Town of Kirtland, and San Juan 
County, For the Governance of the Farmington Metropolitan Planning Organization. 
 
This Joint Powers Agreement is entered into on this 1st day of  September 2020 by and 
between:the City of Aztec, a municipal corporation, hereinafter referred to as "Aztec", the City of 
Bloomfield, a municipal corporation, hereafter referred to as “Bloomfield”, the City of 
Farmington, a municipal corporation, hereafter referred to as “Farmington”, the Town of 
Kirtland, a municipal corporation, hereinafter referred to as "Kirtland", and the County of San 
Juan, a political subdivision, hereinafter referred to as “San Juan County", all established as 
public entities in the State of New Mexico. This Agreement amends and replaces the previous 
Joint Powers Agreement dated June 13, 2018, under which the Farmington Metropolitan 
Planning Organization, hereinafter referred to as "FMPO", has been operating under pursuant to 
the Joint Powers Agreement Act, being Sections 11-1-1 et. Seq., NMSA 1978, as amended. 
 
WITNESSETH: 
 
WHEREAS, the area in San Juan County surrounding Aztec, Bloomfield, and Farmington was 
designated as the Farmington “Urbanized Area” as a result of the 2000 United States Census and 
became the Farmington Metropolitan Statistical Area in 2003, and Aztec, Bloomfield, Farmington, 
and San Juan County initially formed the Farmington Metropolitan Planning Organization 
(FMPO) through the adoption of a Joint Powers Agreement (hereinafter "JPA") on April 22, 2003, 
for the purpose of identifying regional transportation needs and developing a comprehensive 
transportation plan for the FMPO’s metropolitan planning area (MPA); and, 
 
WHEREAS, the Town of Kirtland incorporated in 2015 and joined the FMPO in 2018; and 
 
WHEREAS, the parties hereto agree that it is in the best interests of Aztec, Bloomfield, 
Farmington, Kirtland and San Juan County, the member entities of the FMPO, to add the 
Town of Kirtland to the MPO, and to maintain and continue the Metropolitan Planning 
Organization, in order to conduct coordinated, continuing, and comprehensive transportation 
planning in the region; and, 
 
WHEREAS, the FMPO shall continue to oversee and direct regional transportation policy and to 
accomplish general transportation planning within the MPA; and, 
 
WHEREAS, Aztec, Bloomfield, Farmington, Kirtland, and San Juan County authorize the City 
of Farmington to contract with the New Mexico Department of Transportation (NMDOT) for the 
purpose of receiving funding to support the activities of the FMPO as the MPO’s fiscal agent; 
and, 
 
WHEREAS, FMPO’s transportation policies are governed by the MPO Policy Committee that is 
comprised of elected and/or appointed officials, or their designated alternates, from Aztec, 
Bloomfield, Farmington, Kirtland, and San Juan County, the member entities of FMPO; and, 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Joint Powers Agreement Act, NMSA 1978, Sections 11-1-1 through 
7
 
2 
 
11-1-7, Aztec, Bloomfield, Farmington, Kirtland, and San Juan County are explicitly authorized 
to enter into a JPA to establish, govern, and manage a separate agency to possess and exercise 
common powers of the parties; and, 
 
WHEREAS, this Joint Powers Agreement shall supersede and replace the previous Joint Powers 
Agreement dated June 13, 2018; and, 
 
WHEREAS, FMPO will carry out the purpose and all duties specified in 23 CFR §450 Subpart 
C. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants hereafter contained, 
the parties hereby agree as follows: 
 
SECTION ONE: 
 
Authority:  The authority under which the parties have entered into this agreement are 
the New Mexico Statutes: Sec. 11-1-1 to 11-1-7 NMSA 1978 (Joint Powers Agreements Act); Sec. 
3-18-1, Seq. NMSA 1978 (Municipal Code); Sec 4-37-1 et. Seq. NMSA 1978 (County Ordinance); 
Sec. 13-1-44, Sec. 13-1-111 through Sec. 13-1-117 and Sec. 13-1-135 and Sec. 13- 
1-136 NMSA 1978 (Procurement Code). 
 
SECTION TWO: 
 
Term:  The term of this Agreement shall extend from the 1st day of October 2020 (or the 
first of the month following adoption to the 30th of September, 2022and this Agreement 
shall be renewed automatically each year, subject to the appropriation of funds. 
 
SECTION THREE: 
 
Fiscal Agent:  The parties agree that the Fiscal Agent for the Farmington MPO shall be 
the City of Farmington. As the Fiscal Agent, the City of Farmington shall be responsible for the 
accounting and administration of all funds necessary to operate the MPO, including co-signing the 
MPO’s cooperative agreements with NMDOT. This shall include such operating expenditures as, 
but is not limited to, office supplies and equipment, office rent, utilities, vehicle purchase and 
maintenance, budgeting, auditing, procurement, personnel, information technology, and  legal  
services.  Any member entity may voluntarily contribute cash  or in-kind  services toward the 
MPO’s operations expense. All expenditures by the MPO shall be done in accordance with the 
requirements of the New Mexico Procurement Code. All expenditures of Metropolitan Planning 
funds received under Title 23 U.S.C. Section 134, Metropolitan Planning, and Title 49 
U.S.C. Section 5303, Metropolitan Planning, shall be done in accordance with State and Federal 
requirements related to the expenditures of such funds. 
 
SECTION FOUR: 
 
Organizational Structure:  The organizational structure of the Farmington Metropolitan 
Planning Organization shall be as follows: 
8
 
3 
 
 
 
A. 
An MPO Policy Committee shall be formed to establish policy to govern the urban 
transportation planning process. 
 
1. 
The MPO Policy Committee shall consist of: 
a. 
One (1) member who shall be an elected or appointed official from Aztec. 
b. 
One  (1)  member  who  shall  be  an  elected  or  appointed  official  from 
Bloomfield. 
c. 
Three  (3)  members  who  shall  be  elected  or  appointed  officials  from 
Farmington. 
d. 
One  (1)  member  who  shall  be  an  elected  or  appointed  official  from 
Kirtland. 
e. 
Two (2) members who shall be an elected or appointed official from San 
Juan County. 
e. 
One (1) member who shall be appointed by the New Mexico Department 
of Transportation (NMDOT). 
f. 
Each member identified above shall be entitled to one (1) vote. Each 
member may have an alternate member who shall be formally designated 
by the Governing Body of that public agency and who shall be permitted 
to participate and vote in the absence of that member.  A majority vote of 
five (5) members shall be required for any formal action taken by the 
MPO Policy Committee. 
g.         In  addition,  the  Federal  Highway  Administration  (FHWA),  the  New 
Mexico Department of Transportation (NMDOT), and other ex-officio (non-
voting) members may be established by action of the MPO Policy 
Committee. 
h. 
The MPO Policy Committee is governed by this JPA and the MPO’s 
Committee Bylaws. 
 
2. 
The function of the MPO Policy Committee shall be as follows: 
a. 
Serve as a forum for cooperative decision-making in transportation-related 
matters by principal elected officials of local governments. 
b. 
Provide  general  policy  guidance  and  direction  to  the  Metropolitan 
Planning Organization and to the Technical Committee for the urban 
transportation planning process. 
c. 
Review   and   approve   actions   taken   by   the   Metropolitan   Planning 
Organization in its performance of those functions shown in Subsection C 
and Subsection D below. 
d. 
Provide  general  policy  guidance  and  direction  to  the  Metropolitan 
Planning  Organization  Officer  and  MPO  staff  in  the  performance  of 
his/her duties. 
e. 
Receive and consider input to the transportation planning process from the 
citizens of the MPA. 
f. 
Report the status of urban transportation planning at a public meeting at 
least annually. 
9
 
4 
 
 
 
g. 
Periodically  review  and  establish  the  jurisdictional  boundaries  of  the 
MPA, subject to the review and approval of the Governor of the State of 
New Mexico, as required by law. 
h. 
Develop  and  approve  an  annual  budget  that  is  adequate  to  fund  the 
required activities of the MPO. 
i. 
Undertake such other activities as it may deem necessary and appropriate 
to carry out transportation planning for the urban area. 
 
B. 
An MPO Technical Committee shall be formed to act as technical advisors to the MPO 
Policy Committee. 
 
1. 
The MPO Technical Committee shall consist of: 
a. 
One (1) member who shall be appointed by Aztec. 
b. 
One (1) member who shall be appointed by Bloomfield. 
c. 
Three (3) members who shall be appointed by Farmington. One (1) of 
these members shall be appointed by the Red Apple Transit. 
d. 
One (1) member who shall be appointed by Kirtland. 
e. 
Two (2) members who shall be appointed by San Juan County. 
f.         One (1) member who shall be appointed by the New Mexico Department 
of Transportation (NMDOT). 
 
2. 
Membership on the MPO Technical Committee should be made up of persons 
having  expertise  in  transportation  planning  or  programs  or  in  transportation 
related planning or programs. The MPO Technical Committee is governed by this 
JPA and the MPO’s Committee Bylaws. 
 
3. 
Each member of the MPO Technical Committee identified above shall be entitled 
to one (1) vote.  Each member of the MPO Technical Committee may designate 
an alternate member who shall be permitted to participate and vote in the absence 
of that MPO Technical Committee member. A majority vote of five (5) members 
shall be required for any formal action taken by the MPO Technical Committee. 
 
4. 
In  addition,  the  Federal  Highway  Administration  (FHWA),  the  New  Mexico 
Department of Transportation (NMDOT) and other appropriate ex-officio (non- 
voting) members may be established by action of the MPO Policy Committee. 
 
5. 
The MPO Officer may be designated as a non-voting ex-officio member of the 
MPO Technical Committee by the Policy Committee.   The MPO Officer and 
MPO staff shall provide staff assistance to the MPO Technical Committee as 
necessary, including the keeping and distribution of the agendas, minutes and 
other records in compliance with all applicable statutes. 
 
6. 
The functions of the MPO Technical Committee shall be those designated by the 
MPO Policy Committee, including, but not limited to, providing technical 
information and analysis on transportation planning issues and projects; making 
recommendations regarding the priorities of individual transportation projects to 
10
 
5 
 
 
 
be included on the TIP, and such other functions as are specified elsewhere in this 
Agreement. 
 
7. 
Advisory (voting and non-voting) members may also be designated to participate 
in the MPO Technical Committee from time to time by action of the MPO Policy 
Committee. 
 
C. 
The Metropolitan Planning Organization shall be designated by the Governor of the State 
of New Mexico, pursuant to Section 112 of the Federal Highway Act of 1973.  The MPO 
boundary shall  be  shown  in  the  attached  Exhibit  A.    The  MPO  boundary shall  be 
reviewed periodically and may be amended by the MPO Policy Committee, subject to the 
review and approval of the Governor of the State of New Mexico, as required by law. 
 
D. 
The Metropolitan Planning Organization, in cooperation with the State, shall perform the 
following functions: 
 
1. 
Address the seven (7) National Planning Goals in the Fixing America’s Surface 
Transportation (FAST) Act, listed below, by establishing performance targets. 
 
Goal Area 
National Goal 
Safety 
To achieve a significant reduction in traffic fatalities and
serious injuries on all public roads 
Infrastructure 
condition 
To maintain the highway infrastructure asset system in a
state of good repair 
Congestion 
reduction 
To achieve a significant reduction in congestion on the
National Highway System 
System reliability 
To improve the efficiency of the surface transportation
system 
Freight movement 
and economic 
vitality 
To improve the national freight network, strengthen the
ability of rural communities to access national and 
international trade markets, and support regional 
economic development 
Environmental 
sustainability 
To enhance the performance of the transportation system
while protecting and enhancing the natural environment 
Reduced project 
delivery delays 
To reduce project costs, promote jobs and the economy,
and expedite the movement of people and goods by 
accelerating project completion through eliminating 
delays in the project development and delivery process, 
including reducing regulatory burdens and improving 
agencies’ work practices 
 
2.        Because  transportation  planning  studies  are  programmed  for  funding  in  the 
MPO’s United Planning Work Program (UPWP), specific consideration is given 
to the federal planning factors (23 USC 134). The FAST Act added two (2) new 
planning factors to the eight (8) factors established in the Safe, Accountable, 
Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA- 
11
 
6 
 
 
 
LU) transportation  legislation. In  accordance  with the legislation, studies  and 
strategies undertaken by the MPO shall: 
 
a.  Support the economic vitality of the metropolitan area, especially by 
enabling global competitiveness, productivity, and efficiency. 
b.  Increase the safety of the transportation system for all motorized and 
nonmotorized users. 
c.   Increase  the  ability  of  the  transportation  system  to  support  homeland 
security and to safeguard the personal security of all motorized and 
nonmotorized users. 
d.  Increase accessibility and mobility of people and freight. 
e.   Protect  and  enhance  the  environment,  promote  energy  conservation, 
improve quality of life, and promote consistency between transportation 
improvements and state and local planned growth and economic 
development patterns. 
f. Enhance the integration  and  connectivity of the transportation system, 
across and between modes, for people and freight. 
g.   Promote efficient system management and operation. 
h.  Emphasize the preservation of the existing transportation system. 
i. Improve the resiliency and reliability of the transportation system and 
reduce or mitigate stormwater impacts of surface transportation. 
j. Enhance travel and tourism. 
 
3. 
Carry out the metropolitan transportation planning process through the guidance 
of the USDOT-HUD-EPA livability principles, which shall provide for 
consideration of projects and strategies that will: 
 
a.   Provide more transportation choices; 
b.  Promote equitable, affordable housing; 
c.   Enhance economic competitiveness; 
d.  Support existing communities; 
e.   Coordinate policies and leverage investment;  and, 
f. Value communities and neighborhoods. 
 
4.        Develop and publish a Unified Planning Work Program (UPWP) describing all 
urban  transportation  and  transportation-related  planning  activities  the  MPO 
intends to undertake during the subsequent two year period. 
 
5.      Develop and implement a proactive Public Participation Plan (PPP) which will provide 
complete information to the public in a timely manner, address the public 
involvement requirements stated in the FAST Act, and provide an opportunity for 
access to key decisions. 
 
6.        Establish a performance-based approach to the transportation decision-making 
process and to transportation plans such as the MTP and TIP. 
12
 
7 
 
 
 
7.        Prepare,  and  periodically  update,  a  Metropolitan  Transportation  Plan  (MTP) 
which identifies existing or future transportation facilities that should function as an 
integrated metropolitan transportation system or serve important national and 
regional transportation functions for a 20-year planning period, including a financial 
plan that demonstrates how the long range transportation plan can be implemented 
to maintain the system, make the most efficient use of existing transportation 
facilities to relieve congestion and maximize the mobility of people and goods, and 
indicates appropriate transportation enhancement activities. Furthermore, the MTP 
will include performance measures and targets as well as a report evaluating the 
condition of the transportation system based on these performance targets. 
 
8.        Develop and update a Transportation Improvement Plan (TIP) for the urbanized 
area which shall include a priority list of proposed federally supported projects 
within the time period specified by NMDOT and a financial plan which 
demonstrates  how  the  TIP  can  be  implemented.    The TIP will include a 
description of how it will achieve the performance targets outlined in the MTP. 
 
9.        The developments of the TIP and the MTP, shall be coordinated with other 
providers of transportation within and connecting to the area within the MPA. 
 
10. 
Coordinate performance targets with NMDOT to ensure consistency. 
 
11. 
Integrate performance-based processes into other transportation plans. 
 
12.   Cooperate with NMDOT in the development of NMDOT’s Long Range 
Transportation Plan (LRTP) for the MPA, pursuant to Section 134 of Title 23 and 
Section 5303 of Title 49. 
 
13.      Maintain a Traffic Forecast Model (Travel Demand Model) and maintain data on 
traffic counts and socioeconomic conditions (population, employment, and land 
use) for the area within the MPA. 
 
14.     Develop the Annual Listing of Federally Obligated Projects with  
obligated amounts for the MPO and publish the results annually on the MPO 
website. 
 
15. 
Manage the expenditures of Metropolitan Planning funds received under Title 23 
U.S.C.  Section  134,  Metropolitan  Planning  (PL  funds),  and  Title  49  U.S.C. 
Section 5303, Metropolitan Planning, as amended, and under the direction of the 
MPO Policy Committee. 
 
16.    Enter into Agreement with NMDOT for funding and other matters as deemed 
necessary by the MPO Policy Committee. 
 
17. 
Take such other actions as may be necessary as directed and approved by the 
MPO Policy Committee. 
13
 
8 
 
 
 
 
E. 
The MPO staff, including the MPO Officer, shall be employees of the fiscal agent or a 
subcontractor to the fiscal agent retained specifically to manage the MPO. The MPO staff 
shall provide support and assistance to the MPO Policy and MPO Technical Committees 
and shall be responsible for the keeping and distribution of the agendas, minutes and 
other records in compliance with all applicable statutes.   The fiscal agent or its 
subcontractor will house all personnel files of MPO employees, and MPO staff shall be 
responsible for providing updates to maintain personnel files. The fiscal agent or its 
subcontractor will provide human resources services, including payroll, for MPO 
employees. The fiscal agent or its subcontractor shall include participation by Policy 
Committee members in hiring decisions. Benefits and all policy matters related to personnel 
shall be provided by and governed by the fiscal agent or its subcontractor. 
 
1. 
The principal duties of the MPO Officer are: 
 
a. 
Maintain  official  plans  and  records  of  the  MPO,  manage  the  daily 
operations of the MPO, and prepare necessary reports as required by federal 
regulations and NMDOT. 
 
b.        Manage the budget and expenditures for the MPO in accordance with all 
applicable State and Federal Laws, as well as the Unified Planning Work 
Program (UPWP) as approved by the MPO Policy Committee, NMDOT, 
FHWA-NM, and FTA. Maintain a current record of expenditures by the 
State  and  FHWA  for  transportation  projects  and  facilities  within  the 
MPO’s planning area. 
 
c.         Develop and update the Unified Planning Work Program (UPWP), the 
Public Participation Plan (PPP), the Transportation Improvement Program 
(TIP), the List of Obligated Projects, and the Metropolitan Transportation 
Plan  (MTP)  for  review  by  the  MPO  Technical  Committee,  and  for 
approval by the MPO Policy Committee. 
 
d.        Ensure compliance with the State of New Mexico Open Meetings Act, and 
other applicable State Laws. 
 
e. 
Co-signing the MPO’s cooperative agreements with the NMDOT. 
f. 
Supervise the other MPO staff. 
2. 
The principal duties of MPO staff are to ensure the MPO complies with all federal 
and state requirements applicable to metropolitan planning, including carrying out 
the necessary metropolitan planning activities and keeping and distributing 
agendas, minutes, and other records in compliance with all applicable statutes. 
14
 
9 
 
 
 
SECTION FIVE: 
 
Budgeting and Cost Allocation 
A. 
The operating costs for the MPO shall be allocated to the member entities using 
the following formula that is based on proportions of the most current population 
estimates from the U.S.  Census B u r e a u , 2010-2014 A m e r i c a n  C o m m u n i t y  
Survey: 
 
Entity 
Estimated Population 
Percentage of Required
Local Match 
Aztec 
6,587
7% 
Bloomfield 
7,749
8% 
Farmington 
45,318
48% 
Kirtland
471
1% 
San Juan County (within
the MPA) 
34,275
36% 
Total 
94,400 
100% 
 
B. 
The fiscal agent will invoice the entities on a quarterly basis for each entity’s 
share of the actual operating cost of the MPO as well as provide members of the 
Policy Committee and the entities with an update on the MPO’s financial status. 
Any expenditure deemed non-reimbursable by NMDOT shall require the approval 
of the Policy Committee and shall be subject to the funding formula contained in 
Paragraph A. 
 
C. 
The budget year for the MPO shall be from October 1 to September 30 of each 
year. 
 
D. 
The budget for the MPO shall be established annually based on figures provided 
for federal funds and approved by the MPO Policy Committee.   The annual 
budget shall be established in a timely manner each year so that each entity can 
budget its share of the MPO’s operating cost in its own annual budget. 
 
E. 
It is further agreed that the parties hereto assume that some of the expense of the 
continuing transportation planning process will be provided for by funds 
apportioned under Section 104 (f), 23 CFR or by grants made under Sections 8 or 
9, 49 CFR. Expenses not so provided shall be assumed by the member agencies 
according to the cost allocation specified in Section Five of this Agreement.  A 
listing of anticipated funding sources shall be contained in the annual budget that 
is developed to support the Unified Planning Work Program for Transportation 
Planning  and  which  shall  be  presented  to  the  MPO  Policy  Committee  for 
approval. 
15
 
10 
 
 
 
SECTION SIX: 
 
Severability:  It is hereby declared to be the intention of the parties that the articles, 
sections, sub-sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Agreement are 
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, section, sub-section, or article 
of this Agreement, shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of 
any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the 
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, sections, sub-sections, or articles of 
this Agreement, since the same would have been entered into by the parties without such 
invalid portion. 
 
SECTION SEVEN: 
Amendment: 
 
A. 
This Agreement may be supplemented or re-negotiated as necessary to meet 
changing conditions and as recommended by the MPO Policy Committee.  This 
may include, but not be limited to, the following: 
 
1. 
The passage of a new federal transportation bill that includes new or 
revised requirements for metropolitan planning. 
2. 
A significant change in membership and structure of the MPO that may 
result from an entity withdrawing from the MPO, additions or reductions 
of membership to the MPO committees, changes based on census data, or 
modifications to the MPO boundary. 
 
B. 
Except as to the funding formula contained in Section Five, Paragraph A., which 
may only be amended by unanimous consent of all parties, this Agreement may 
be amended by mutual agreement of any three (3) of the five (5) parties to the 
Agreement, as evidenced by written approval of the governing bodies or authorized 
officials of those three (3) parties. 
 
SECTION EIGHT: 
 
Approvals:  This agreement shall be subject to approval by the New Mexico Department 
of Finance and Administration pursuant to the New Mexico Joint Powers Agreements 
Act and pursuant to Sec. 13-1-135 NMSA 1978 and shall be effective as of the date of such 
approval.   The MPA boundary, as initially established by this Agreement and as may 
be periodically amended by the MPO Policy Committee, shall be subject to the approval 
of the Governor of New Mexico, pursuant to 23 CFR 450.306. 
 
 
16
 
11 
 
 
SECTION NINE: Termination 
A. 
One entity may withdraw from this Agreement by giving ninety (90) days’ notice to the 
other Entities. 
 
B. 
This agreement may be terminated by mutual agreement of any three of the five parties to 
this Agreement, as evidenced by written approval of the governing bodies or authorized 
officials of those three parties, and by giving written notice at least ninety (90) days prior 
to the effective date of termination to the NMDOT and all parties to the Agreement. 
 
SECTION TEN: 
 
Conflict Resolution Process: In the event of a disagreement between the Entities, it is 
agreed that the Entities will resolve any disagreements at the lowest possible level.  If a 
disagreement cannot be resolved at the lowest level, the Conflict Resolution hierarchy in 
the following table will be followed.  If other agencies are involved, personnel from 
equivalent organizational levels will be included in the conflict resolution process. 
 
Entity to Entity 
Days to Escalate 
Technical Committee
Next monthly meeting
Policy Committee 
Next scheduled meeting 
Local Councils/Commissions
Next scheduled meeting 
 
If the disagreement cannot be resolved at the Technical Committee level and the entities 
agree to escalate, the issue will be discussed with the Policy Committee at their next 
scheduled meeting.   If an agreement still cannot be reached, then the issue will be escalated 
to the local councils and commissions at their next scheduled meetings. 
 
Mediation  and  facilitation  may  be  used  at  any  level  to  help  expedite  resolution. 
Mediation will be at agreement as needed and shall be held within the MPO planning 
area. 
 
Disposition of Assets Upon Dissolution:   The Entities agree that if the MPO formed 
under this JPA is dissolved or for whatever reason otherwise ceases to exist, any remaining 
funds and equipment associated with the MPO will be disposed of as follows: 
 
A. 
Any remaining funds will be returned to the Entities in proportion to their contribution; 
 
B. 
Any  remaining  equipment  and software will  be  returned  to  the  Entity  contributing  
it  or,  if  the equipment was purchased with contributed funds, the equipment will be 
distributed in proportion to contribution made; and, 
 
C. 
Any remaining equipment purchased with federal or state grant funds will be subject to 2 
CFR 200.313(e). 
17
 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have here unto affixed their signatures: 
 
THE CITY OF AZTEC, NEW MEXICO 
 
 
 
 
MAYOR 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
 
AZTEC CITY CLERK 
(SEAL) 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
 
AZTEC CITY ATTORNEY 
18
 
13 
 
 
 
 
THE CITY OF BLOOMFIELD, NEW MEXICO 
 
 
 
 
MAYOR 
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
 
BLOOMFIELD CITY CLERK 
(SEAL) 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
 
 
BLOOMFIELD CITY ATTORNEY 
19
THE CITY OF FARMINGTON, NEW MEXICO 
MAYOR
ATTEST: 
 
14 
 
FARMINGTON CITY CLERK 
(SEAL) 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
 
 
FARMINGTON CITY ATTORNEY 
20
 
15 
 
 
 
 
THE TOWN OF KIRTLAND, NEW MEXICO 
 
 
 
 
MAYOR 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
 
KIRTLAND TOWN CLERK 
(SEAL) 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
 
 
KIRTLAND TOWN ATTORNEY 
21
 
16 
 
 
 
 
THE COUNTY OF SAN JUAN, NEW MEXICO 
 
 
 
 
CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS 
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
 
SAN JUAN COUNTY CLERK 
(SEAL) 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
 
 
COUNTY ATTORNEY, SAN JUAN COUNTY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED: 
THE STATE OF NEW MEXICO 
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE AND 
ADMINISTRATION 
 
 
 
By: __ 
SECRETARY 
 
 
 
DATE 
22
 
17 
 
EXHIBIT A FARMINGTON MPO BOUNDARY 
23
 
 
 
 
 
Farmington MPO 
 
Committee Bylaws and 
Operating Procedures 
 
 
 
 
Farmington Metropolitan Planning Organization 
Aztec  *  Bloomfield  *  Farmington  * Kirtland * San Juan County  
 
 
Approved by the Policy Committee  
June 25, 2020 
24
2 
 
Farmington Metropolitan Planning Organization 
Committee Bylaws and Operating Procedures 
 
Purpose 
................................................................................................................. 
3 
 
 
POLICY COMMITTEE 
........................................................................................... 
4 
I. 
Authority ..................................................................................................... 
4 
II. 
Membership 
................................................................................................ 
4 
A. Voting Members 
............................................................................... 
4 
B. Ex-Officio Members ......................................................................... 
5 
C. Officers ............................................................................................ 
5 
D. Removal Procedure ......................................................................... 
5-6 
E. Committees 
...................................................................................... 
6 
III. 
Meetings 
..................................................................................................... 
7 
A. Regular Meetings 
............................................................................. 
7-8 
B. Special Meetings ............................................................................. 
8 
C. Emergency Meetings ....................................................................... 
8 
D. Quorum 
............................................................................................ 
8 
E. Voting Procedure ............................................................................. 
8-9 
IV. 
Staff ............................................................................................................ 
9 
A. MPO Officer Designated 
.................................................................. 
9 
B. MPO Staff Responsibilities .............................................................. 
9-10 
 
 
TECHNICAL COMMITTEE ................................................................................. 
10 
I. 
Name 
........................................................................................................ 
10 
II. 
Responsibilities 
......................................................................................... 
10 
III. 
Membership 
.............................................................................................. 
10 
A. Members 
........................................................................................ 
11 
B. Alternate Members ........................................................................ 
11 
C. Membership Appointment 
.............................................................. 
11 
D. Officers .......................................................................................... 
11-12 
E. Removal Procedure ....................................................................... 
12-13 
F. Replacement Procedure ................................................................ 
13 
IV. 
Meetings 
................................................................................................... 
13-14 
A. Quorum 
.......................................................................................... 
14 
B. Voting Procedure ........................................................................... 
14-15 
 
AMENDMENT PROCESS AND RENEWAL ....................................................... 
15 
I. 
Amending the Bylaws ............................................................................... 
15 
II. 
Renewal of the Bylaws ............................................................................. 
15 
 
 
 
 
25
3 
 
Farmington Metropolitan Planning Organization  
Committee Bylaws and Operating Procedures 
 
Purpose 
 
The Farmington Metropolitan Planning Organization (FMPO), as designated by the 
Governor of the State of New Mexico, is established by a Joint Powers Agreement 
between the participating members consisting of the Cities of Aztec, Bloomfield, 
Farmington, the Town of Kirtland, and San Juan County. FMPO contracts with the New 
Mexico State Department of Transportation to carry out the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Process as defined within the provisions of 23 CFR Section 450. 
 
The contracts and Joint Powers Agreement (JPA) establish a number of operational and 
procedural requirements for the MPO.  The purpose of these Bylaws and Operating 
Procedures is to establish guidance on issues not formally covered in the JPA or 
contracts. 
 
The MPO Committee Bylaws and Operating Procedures were originally adopted by the 
Farmington MPO Policy Committee on January 15, 2004.  This document was previously 
renewed by the Policy Committee on September 14, 2006, on September 17, 2009, on 
September 20, 2012, on May 28, 2015, and on June 28, 2018. 
 
For the next three-year period, the Committee Bylaws and Operating Procedures were 
approved for renewal by the Farmington MPO Policy Committee on June 25, 2020. The 
document will be in effect from October 1, 2020 through September 30, 2023.   
 
 
 
__________________________________ 
Councilor Sean Sharer, Policy Committee Chair 
 
 
__________________________________ 
Nick Porell, Technical Committee Chair 
 
 
__________________________________ 
Peter Koeppel, MPO Officer 
 
26
4 
 
Policy Committee 
I. 
Authority 
 
The Policy Committee has authority granted under the current Joint Powers 
Agreement, applicable to contracts and State and Federal laws and regulations, 
including but not limited to 23 CFR Section 450. 
 
II. 
Membership 
A. Voting Members 
 
The Policy Committee is made up of nine (9) voting members; eight (8) who 
are appointed by the governing bodies of the participating local 
governments and one (1) designated by NMDOT.  Either an elected official 
(preferable) or an appointed government official of the governing body may 
serve as a member or designated alternate.  The governing body of each 
participating member is responsible for appointing an official to the Policy 
Committee as follows: 
 
One (1) from the City of Aztec; 
One (1) from City of Bloomfield; 
Three (3) from the City of Farmington; 
Two (2) from San Juan County; 
One (1) from the Town of Kirtland; and 
One (1) from the New Mexico Department of Transportation 
 
Alternates may be designated by the participating member’s governing 
body or NMDOT for their voting member; the alternates must also be either 
an elected official (preferable) or an appointed government official of the 
governing body, except for the NMDOT member.  For members and 
alternates, the governing body and NMDOT shall submit a letter to the MPO 
Officer designating the member and the alternate member.  The member’s 
and the alternate’s designation shall remain in effect until they can no longer 
serve in that capacity.  A new letter designating a new member or alternate 
will then need to be submitted by that entity.  Each Policy Committee 
member or their designated alternate has one vote.  If a Policy Committee 
member is absent for more than two (2) consecutive meetings in a calendar 
year, the Policy Committee may petition the absent member’s governing 
body for a new appointment. 
 
 
 
27
5 
 
B. 
Ex-Officio Members 
 
The Policy Committee may establish ex-officio members from the Federal 
Highway Administration (FHWA), the New Mexico Department of 
Transportation (NMDOT) or other appropriate agency. 
C. 
Officers 
 
The officers of the Policy Committee shall consist of a Chair, Vice Chair and 
a Secretary. 
 
1. , The Policy Committee will hold their Annual Election of Officers during 
their January meeting.  The Chair and Vice Chair shall be chosen from 
among the members of the Policy Committee.  The duties of the Chair 
shall be to preside at all meetings of the Policy Committee.  The Vice 
Chair shall be responsible for presiding at the meetings in the absence 
of the Chair.  The Chair and Vice-Chair shall serve for a 12-month 
period. 
  
2. The MPO Officer or designee shall be a non-voting member, act as the 
Secretary and shall have the responsibility for maintaining accurate 
records of all Policy Committee meetings.  The MPO Officer,  MPO 
Associate Planner  and MPO Administrative Assistant shall prepare 
agendas and such other duties as may be designated from time to time 
by the MPO Policy Committee. 
 
3. If the Chair or Vice Chair position becomes vacant, the remaining Policy 
Committee members shall elect a replacement officer at the next 
regularly scheduled meeting. 
 
4. If neither the Chair nor Vice-Chair can attend a regular Policy Committee 
meeting, the remaining members will select among themselves a 
member to serve as Chair for that meeting. 
 
D. 
Removal Procedure 
 
1. Attendance by members is required at all Policy Committee meetings.  
Policy Committee membership may be terminated if a Technical 
Committee member fails to attend  seventy-five (75) percent of the 
Policy Committee meetings in a twelve-month calendar period.   
Committee attendance is recorded and archived by the MPO Officer or 
designee.   
 
28
6 
 
2. Attendance requirements and removal procedures do not apply to Policy 
Committee alternates.  Their attendance is only subject to filling in for 
their respective Policy Committee member. 
 
3. The Chair shall speak with a Policy Committee member who is subject 
to removal through non-attendance to determine if that member will 
make a commitment to attend Policy Committee meetings.  If the 
member cannot make the commitment, the Chair will send a 
recommendation to the City of Town Manager, County CEO, or 
appropriate manager with NMDOT that a new member from that entity 
be designated to serve on the MPO Policy Committee. 
 
4. In the event that it is the MPO Policy Committee Chair that is subject to 
removal through non-attendance, the Vice Chair shall conduct the 
process as described above.  If the Vice Chair is unable to participate, 
the remaining Policy Committee members shall choose someone 
amongst themselves to conduct this process. 
 
5. In the event of a dispute concerning the abandonment or vacation of a 
Policy Committee member, the Policy Committee member affected may 
petition the MPO Policy Committee to be allowed an opportunity to show 
cause why he or she should not be removed from office.  
 
6. The MPO Policy Committee may remove any Policy Committee member 
upon the grounds of malfeasance or nonfeasance of office through an 
affirmative vote of a majority of the voting members. 
 
E. 
Replacement Procedure 
 
The designated appointing entities shall make any and all replacement 
appointments to the Policy Committee.  All replacement appointments 
made shall be provided in writing to the MPO Officer in a timely manner. 
 
F.      Committees 
 
The MPO Policy Committee reserves the right to create committees or sub-
committees, as needed, to assist with achieving goals outlined in the 
Metropolitan Transportation Plan. These committees may include ad hoc 
groups, more temporary in nature, or longer standing, perhaps permanent 
advisory committees. 
 
The Policy Committee reserves the right to issue a proclamation upon a 
majority vote of that committee and after the proposal has been placed on 
the agenda as an action item in accordance with the New Mexico Open 
Meetings Act. 
29
7 
 
 
III. 
Meetings 
 
All meetings held shall be in compliance with the New Mexico Open Meetings Act 
and the Open Meetings Resolution adopted annually by the Farmington MPO 
Policy Committee.   
 
Written notice of meetings (agendas) and supporting documentation shall be 
provided to the Policy Committee members on the following schedule: 
 
 
Regular Meetings – one (1) week notice 
 
Special Meetings – four (4) day notice 
 
Emergency Meetings – four (4) hours prior to the meeting 
 
Robert’s Rules of Order shall be followed, except that the Chair may make 
motions, participate in discussion and vote on any motion. 
 
To afford Policy Committee members an opportunity to add items to the agenda, 
a draft agenda will be sent out approximately one week prior to the final agenda 
being distributed (approximately two weeks before the upcoming Policy Committee 
meeting). Committee members proposing additional agenda items will need to 
work with MPO Staff on the scope of the final report. Staff and the MPO Officer (or 
designee) will review and approve all final agendas before they are distributed to 
the Policy Committee. 
 
A. 
Regular Meetings 
 
1. Regular Meetings shall be held at least six (6) times per year as adopted 
by an annual resolution which establishes the meeting times, dates, and 
locations for the Policy Committee.  The Committee Meeting Schedule 
will be determined for the upcoming calendar year by the Policy 
Committee at its last meeting of the previous calendar year by 
resolution.  Locations for the Policy Committee meetings will be held on 
a rotating basis among the entities.  Any item of business may be acted 
on at these meetings. 
 
2. Upon declaration of a public emergency by a government entity, a virtual 
or telephonic meeting may be called for the regularly scheduled 
meetings of the Policy Committee. This meeting would allow 
participation by Policy Committee members and maintain any 
required/mandated social distance.  
 
Voting during a virtual or telephone meeting shall not conflict with the 
codes and regulations of the entity represented by the Policy Committee 
30
8 
 
Member.  The telephonic action shall be in accordance with the New 
Mexico Open Meeting Act (5661 NMSA 10-15-1). 
 
Policy Committee Members may vote on action items remotely either by 
voice, email or through a digital platform chat feature.  
 
Members of the public would be invited to attend the meeting virtually 
through a digital platform and/or over the telephone allowing comments 
and questions at a time designated on the agenda.   
B. 
Special Meetings 
 
Special Meetings shall be held as needed.  Special Meetings may be 
scheduled by the MPO Officer, the Chair or a majority of the members of 
the Policy Committee.  Special meetings may be held when unexpected 
deadlines come up that require action by the MPO. 
 
C. 
Emergency Meetings 
 
 
Emergency Meetings shall be held only when time constraints prohibit 
consideration of an issue at a Special Meeting or when postponement of 
any action would have adverse financial or other consequences for the 
Farmington MPO. Concurrence of a majority of the members of the Policy 
Committee is necessary to hold an Emergency Meeting. 
D. 
Quorum 
 
A quorum of the Policy Committee is defined in the Joint Powers Agreement 
as consisting of a majority of the voting members.  No action shall be taken 
without a quorum of the Policy Committee in attendance at that meeting.  
Any action taken by the Policy Committee shall require a majority vote of all 
members of the Policy Committee. 
 
E. 
Voting Procedure 
 
1. The method of taking a vote is by voice vote (“yeas or nays”). 
 
2. The responsibility of announcing the vote rests upon the Chair who has 
the right to have the vote taken again, by a “show of hands”, by “raising 
the right hand”, by ballot, by roll call, or by rising and having the vote 
counted, if necessary. 
 
3. Telephonic vote may be allowed when the quorum is not present at any 
Policy Committee meeting.  Telephonic vote shall be enacted to approve 
31
9 
 
actions and to hear reports.  Telephonic vote shall only be allowed when 
the conference call device being used allows each member participating 
by phone to be identified when speaking and allows all participants, 
whether on the telephone or at the meeting, to hear each other at the 
same time.  
 
Telephonic vote shall be enacted on the request of any Policy 
Committee Member when he/she cannot attend the meeting due to 
reasons beyond his/her control.  The members who cannot attend the 
meeting in person shall inform MPO staff of their need to participate by 
telephone.   
 
Telephonic vote shall not conflict with the codes and regulations of the 
entity that is represented by the Policy Committee Member.  The 
telephonic action shall be in accordance with the New Mexico Open 
Meeting Act (5661 NMSA 10-15-1). 
 
IV. 
Staff 
A. 
MPO Officer Designated 
 
The fiscal agent of the MPO, or its subcontractor retained to manage the 
MPO, shall designate, with the concurrence of the FMPO Policy Committee, 
the MPO Officer.  
 
B. 
MPO Staff Responsibilities 
 
The MPO Officer shall be the primary staff person for the Policy and 
Technical Committees, responsible for directing all operational functions of 
the MPO, including, but not limited to: 
 
Maintaining official plans and records of the MPO; 
 
Managing the daily operations of the MPO; 
 
Preparing necessary reports as required by federal regulations and 
NMDOT; 
 
Managing the budget and expenditures for the MPO in accordance with all 
applicable State and Federal Laws, as well as the Unified Planning Work 
Program (UPWP) as approved by the MPO Policy Committee, NMDOT, 
FHWA and FTA; 
 
32
10 
 
Maintaining a current record of expenditures by the State and FHWA for 
transportation projects and facilities within the MPO’s planning area; 
 
Developing and updating the Unified Planning Work Program (UPWP), the 
Public Participation Plan (PPP), the Transportation Improvement Program 
(TIP), the List of Obligated Projects, and the Metropolitan Transportation 
Plan (MTP) for review by the MPO Technical Committee, and for approval 
by the MPO Policy Committee; 
 
Developing and implementing the committee member training program, in 
accordance with the MPO’s adopted UPWP and these Bylaws, which shall 
include, at a minimum, orientation training for new members, provision of 
MPO reference materials, a minimum of quarterly trainings for each 
Committee, and training required by the adoption of new state and federal 
regulations, policies, and procedures; 
 
Ensuring compliance with the State of New Mexico Open Meetings Act, and 
other applicable State laws; and, 
 
Supervising the other MPO staff, which may include the following: 
 
 MPO Senior Transportation Planner 
 MPO Associate Transportation Planner; and, 
 MPO Administrative Assistant. 
 
 
 
Technical Committee 
I. 
Name 
 
The committee acting as technical advisors to the Policy Committee shall be 
named the Technical Committee of the Farmington Metropolitan Planning 
Organization (FMPO). 
 
II. 
Responsibilities 
 
As noted in the Joint Powers Agreement, the Technical Committee is established 
by the Farmington Metropolitan Planning Organization and shall be responsible for 
providing technical review of all transportation plans within the MPO’s planning 
area and providing input and recommendations to the MPO Policy Committee on 
issues and proposals directed to it by its membership, the MPO Policy Committee, 
or the MPO Officer. Other responsibilities shall include those as may be designated 
from time to time by the MPO Policy Committee. 
33
11 
 
III. 
Membership 
 
Membership in the Technical Committee shall be governed by the Policy 
Committee of the Farmington Metropolitan Planning Organization. 
A. 
Members 
 
Voting Members of the Technical Committee shall include: 
 
One (1) representative from the City of Aztec; 
One (1) representative from the City of Bloomfield; 
Three (3) representatives from the City of Farmington: one (1) of 
these members shall be appointed by Red Apple Transit; 
Two (2) representatives from San Juan County;  
One (1) representative from the Town of Kirtland; and  
One (1) representative from the New Mexico Department of 
Transportation. 
 
Members of the Technical Committee are selected by their governing body, 
NMDOT, or Red Apple Transit.  The entity shall submit a letter to the MPO 
Officer designating the member and the member’s designation will remain 
in effect until the member can no longer serve in that capacity.  A new letter 
designating a new member will then need to be submitted by the 
appropriate entity. 
 
The MPO Officer may be designated as an ex-officio member of the 
Technical Committee by the Policy Committee. 
B. 
Alternate Member 
 
Each representative from an agency may appoint an alternate to the 
Technical Committee to serve when the appointed member cannot attend.  
The agency shall submit a letter to the MPO Officer designating the 
alternate.  The alternate’s designation shall remain in effect until the 
alternative can no longer serve in that capacity.  A new letter designating a 
new alternate will then need to be submitted by that entity.  The designated 
alternate shall have all of the voting privileges of the regular member when 
attending a meeting in the place of the regular member. 
C. 
Membership Appointment 
 
The MPO Policy Committee may appoint new voting or ex-officio members 
to the Technical Committee as it deems necessary. 
34
12 
 
D. 
Officers 
 
The officers of the Technical Committee shall consist of a Chair, Vice Chair 
and a Secretary. 
 
1. The Chair and Vice Chair shall be chosen annually from among the 
voting members of the Technical Committee at its first meeting of the 
calendar year.   
 
2. The succeeding Chairman shall officiate at the first meeting of the 
calendar year and shall serve for twelve (12) months. 
 
3. The Chair shall preside at the meetings, call the meetings, and may 
choose to present a progress report covering the Technical Committee’s 
recommendations to the Policy Committee.   
 
4. The Vice Chair shall preside at meetings in the absence of the Chair.  If 
neither the Chair nor Vice-Chair can attend a regular Technical 
Committee meeting, the remaining members will select among 
themselves a member to serve as Chair for that meeting. 
 
5. If the Chair or Vice Chair resigns, the remaining Technical Committee 
members shall elect a replacement officer at the next regularly 
scheduled meeting. 
 
6. The MPO Officer or designee shall be a non-voting member, act as the 
Secretary and shall have the responsibility for maintaining accurate 
records of all Technical Committee meetings.  The MPO Officer and 
MPO Associate Planner shall prepare agendas and such other duties as 
may be designated from time to time by the Technical Committee with 
consent from the MPO Policy Committee. 
   
E. 
Removal Procedure 
 
1. Attendance is required at all Technical Committee meetings. Technical 
Committee membership may be terminated if a Technical Committee 
member fails to attend seventy-five (75) percent of the Technical 
Committee meetings in a twelve-month calendar period, ,either in 
person or remotely, .  Committee attendance is recorded and archived 
by the MPO Officer or designee. 
 
2. Attendance requirements and removal procedures do not apply to 
Technical Committee alternates.  Their attendance is only subject to 
filling in for their respective Technical Committee member. 
 
35
13 
 
3. The Chair of the Technical Committee shall speak with a Technical 
Committee member who is subject to removal through non-attendance 
to determine if that member will make a commitment to attend Technical 
Committee meetings.  If the member cannot make the commitment, the 
Chair will send a recommendation to the corresponding City or Town 
Manager, County CEO, or appropriate manager with NMDOT or Red 
Apple Transit, that a new member from that entity be designated to serve 
on the Technical Committee. 
 
4. In the event that the Technical Committee member subject to removal 
through non-attendance is the Chair, the Vice Chair shall conduct the 
process described above.  If the Vice Chair is unable to participate, 
another Technical Committee member shall be chosen to conduct the 
process. 
 
5. In the event of a dispute concerning the proposed removal of a Technical 
Committee member, the affected Technical Committee member may 
petition the MPO Policy Committee to be allowed an opportunity to show 
cause why he/she should not be removed from office. 
 
6. The MPO Policy Committee may remove any Technical Committee 
member by the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting three (3) 
members upon the grounds of malfeasance or nonfeasance of office. 
 
F. 
Replacement Procedure 
 
The designated appointing entities shall make any and all replacement 
appointments to the Technical Committee.  All replacement appointments 
made shall be provided in writing to the MPO Officer in a timely manner. 
 
 
IV. 
Meetings 
 
All meetings held shall be in compliance with the New Mexico Open Meetings Act 
and the Open Meetings Resolution adopted annually by the Farmington MPO 
Technical Committee.  The Technical Committee shall meet on a monthly basis, 
as adopted by an annual resolution which establishes the meeting times, dates, 
and locations for the Technical Committee.  The Chair or the MPO Officer may call 
for meetings from time to time as needed.  
 
Written notice of meetings (agendas) and supporting documentation shall be 
provided to the Technical Committee members on the following schedule: 
 
 
Regular Meetings – one (1) week notice 
36
14 
 
 
Special Meetings – four (4) day notice 
 
To afford Technical Committee members an opportunity to add items to the 
agenda, a draft agenda will be sent out approximately one week prior to the final 
agenda being distributed (approximately two weeks before the upcoming 
Technical Committee meeting). Committee members proposing additional agenda 
items will need to work with MPO Staff on the scope of the final report. Staff and 
the MPO Officer (or designee) will review and approve all final agendas before 
they are distributed to the Technical Committee. 
 
Upon declaration of a public emergency, a virtual or telephonic meeting may be 
called for the regularly scheduled meetings of the Technical Committee. This 
meeting would allow participation by Technical Committee members and maintain 
any required/mandated social distance.  
 
Voting during a virtual or telephone meeting shall not conflict with the codes and 
regulations of the entity that is represented by the Technical Committee Member.  
The telephonic action shall be in accordance with the New Mexico Open Meeting 
Act (5661 NMSA 10-15-1). 
 
Technical Committee Members may vote on action items remotely either by voice, 
email or through a digital platform chat feature.  
 
Members of the public would be invited to attend the meeting virtually through a 
digital platform and/or over the telephone allowing comments and questions at a 
time designated on the agenda.   
 
Special Meetings shall be held as needed. Special Meetings may be scheduled by 
the MPO Officer, the Chair or a majority of the members of the Technical 
Committee.  Special meetings may be held when unexpected deadlines come up 
that require action by the MPO. 
 
Robert’s Rules of Order shall be followed, except that the Chair may make 
motions, participate in discussion and vote on any motion. 
 
A. 
Quorum 
 
A quorum of the Technical Committee shall consist of a majority of the 
voting members.  No action shall be taken without a quorum of the 
Technical Committee in attendance at that meeting.  Any action taken by 
the Technical Committee shall require a majority vote of all members of the 
Technical Committee. 
 
37
15 
 
B. 
Voting Procedure 
 
1. The method of taking a vote is by voice vote (“yeas or nays”). 
 
2. Responsibility for announcing the vote rests upon the Chair who has the 
right to have the vote taken again, by a “show of hands”, by “raising the 
right hand”, by rising, by ballot, by roll call, or by rising and having the 
vote counted, if necessary. 
 
3. Telephonic vote shall be allowed when the quorum is not present at any 
Technical Committee meeting.  Telephonic vote shall be enacted to 
approve actions and to hear reports.  Telephonic vote shall only be 
allowed when the conference call device being used allows each 
member participating by phone to be identified when speaking and 
allows all participants, whether on the telephone or at the meeting, to 
hear each other at the same time.   
 
Telephonic vote shall be enacted on the request of any Technical 
Committee Member when he/she cannot attend the meeting due to 
reasons beyond his/her control.  The members who cannot attend the 
meeting in person shall inform MPO staff of their need to participate by 
telephone. 
 
Telephonic vote shall not conflict with the codes and regulations of the 
entity that is represented by the Technical Committee Member.  The 
telephonic action shall be in accordance with the New Mexico Open 
Meeting Act (5661 NMSA 10-15-1). 
 
 
Amendment Process & Renewal 
 
I. 
Amending the Bylaws 
 
If the Bylaws require an amendment, the formal procedures are described as 
follows: 
 
1. The MPO Officer will bring the proposed amendment to the attention of 
the Technical Committee. 
2. After reviewing the amendment, the MPO officer or designee will 
recommend that the Technical Committee forward a recommendation 
of approval of the amendment to the Policy Committee. 
3. The Policy Committee will be asked to review the amendment and 
approve the change to the Bylaws document. 
 
38
16 
 
II.   
Renewal of the Bylaws 
 
The Committee Bylaws and Operating Procedures document will guide MPO 
committee meetings for a three year period.  The document will be formally 
reviewed in conjunction with the MPO Joint Powers Agreement near the end of 
the three year period to make necessary changes and updates.  The renewal of 
the Bylaws, approved by the Policy Committee on June 25, 2020, will be in effect 
from October 1, 2020until September 30, 2023.  In the months prior to renewal, 
the MPO will review the document with the Technical and Policy Committees.  A 
30-day public comment period will be opened prior to approval by the Policy 
Committee.  The Bylaws document will be made available on the MPO website 
(www.farmingtonmpo.org) and at the MPO Office (100 W. Broadway, 
Farmington).  
39
FARMINGTON METROPOLITAN PLANNING ORGANIZATION 
Agenda Item #6 
 
 
 
Subject: 
Letter of Support – Trail of the Ancients Byway 
Prepared by: 
Beth Escobar, AICP, Community Works Planning 
Manager 
Date: 
June 10, 2020
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
The New Mexico Council of Governments and New Mexico Council of Governments 
and New Mexico Department of Transportation have requested a letter of support 
from the FMPO for the nomination for a National Scenic Byway designation for the 
portion of the Trail of the Ancients Byway within New Mexico. This designation 
would support the regional economy and facilitate the connection to the nationally 
designated Trail of the Ancients Byways in Utah and Colorado. 
 
At their May 20, 2020 meeting the Technical Committee considered recommending 
approval to the Policy Committee, but several questions were raised concerning this 
possible designation. 
 
Action on the item was tabled until the questions could be answered.  
 
 
CURRENT WORK
 
The Northwest New Mexico Council of Governments (NWNMCOG) provided answers 
to the questions raised at the Technical Committee meeting of May 20: 
o A revised copy of the map of the proposed portion of the byway 
designation is attached. 
o NM 57 is not included in the current State Byway, so is not eligible for 
inclusion in the nomination letter. 
o Does the designation impact existing conditions? It does not although could 
be a selling point for future improvement projects in the STIP. 
o Will existing billboards be required to be removed and/or future billboards 
prohibited? Existing and future billboards will follow local land use 
ordinances and State and Federal regulations that exist at that time. 
NWNMCOG’s current Corridor Management Plan defers decisions and any 
enforcement to the appropriate governmental body. 
o Are there any other impacts to be aware of? NWNMCOG said not to their 
knowledge. 
o Has the Navajo Nation been asked to support this designation? Yes. 
 
 
ANTICIPATED WORK
 
Seek final approval of the Letter of Support for the nomination for a National 
Scenic Byway designation for the portion of the Trail of the Ancients Byway within 
New Mexico by the Policy Committee on June 25, 2020. 
 
 
 
40
 
ATTACHMENTS
 
Proposed FMPO Letter of Support.
 
Copy of the map of the proposed portion of the byway designation being 
recommended.  
 
 
ACTION ITEM
 
Staff recommends that the Technical Committee consider recommending approval 
to the Policy Committee for the Policy Committee Chair to sign the proposed 
Letter of Support.  
 
 
 
41
 
 
May 11, 2020 
 
Elaine Chao, Secretary 
US Department of Transportation 
1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE 
Washington, DC 20590 
RE:  Nomination for National Scenic Byway 
Trail of the Ancients Byway – New Mexico 
 
 
To Whom It May Concern: 
 
On behalf of Farmington Metropolitan Planning Organization (FMPO), I wish to express 
our support for the regional application submitted by the Northwest NM Regional 
Transportation Planning Organization and its Council of Governments for national 
designation of our Trail of the Ancients Scenic Byway.  With the passage of Reviving 
America’s Scenic Byway Act of 2019 and leadership of President’s Trump administration, 
we are grateful for the opportunity to submit our byway for nomination.  This byway is the 
gateway to the Four Corners and includes Chaco Canyon, El Morro National Monument, 
El Malpais National Monument, Aztec Ruins National Monument, Salmon Ruins, and 
many, many others. 
 
Consideration for this approval from the US Department of Transportation and Federal 
Highway Administration will be sincerely appreciated from the many cross-jurisdictional 
governments in our three-county region of northwest New Mexico. This includes the 
Counties of San Juan, Cibola and McKinley, the communities of Gallup, Grants, Milan, 
Farmington, Aztec, Kirtland, and Bloomfield, and the Pueblos of Zuni, Acoma, Laguna 
and the great Navajo Nation. In recent years, our regional economy has been crippled by 
the loss of coal markets including the planned closures of three powerplants and associated 
mines and businesses.  A joint strategy in economic diversification in the region is to 
increase recreational tourism and visitation in terms of longer and deeper stays.  The 
National Byways program is a natural asset in achieving this strategy. 
 
We are very interested in joining the Nationally-designated Trail of the Ancients byway in 
Utah and Colorado, and eventually Arizona to create a Four Corners brand and identity for 
this byway.  We have already partnered to build the National Geographic endorsed Four 
42
Corners Geotourism website and collateral materials to support this eventuality.  We 
believe our archaeological and cultural assets are the best in the world, and that our other 
intrinsic qualities also rank very high nationally.  On behalf of our FMPO, we appreciate 
your consideration of this tool to develop our tourism market, business creation and 
retention, and overall economic development. 
 
Respectfully, 
 
_____________________ 
Sean Sharer, Chair 
Farmington MPO Policy Committee 
 
 
cc://  
Robert Kuipers, Program Manager, Northwest NM Regional Transportation Planning 
Organization 
Michael Sandoval, Cabinet Secretary, NM Department of Transportation 
 
J. Don Martinez, Division Administrator, US Department of Transportation (FHWA-NM) 
 
 
 
43
44
FARMINGTON METROPOLITAN PLANNING ORGANIZATION 
Agenda Item #7 
 
 
 
Subject:
Status of TIP Projects
Prepared by: 
MPO Staff
Date: 
June 10, 2020
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The STIP Protocols, finalized in early 2014, require that each MPO shall develop a 
process to monitor the progress and status of each project in the first two years 
of the TIP. These monthly reviews help correct inconsistencies in the TIP, STIP, 
the MPO’s MTP, Agreement Request Forms (ARFs), etc. and provide for discussion 
among the members and NMDOT representatives. 
 
The Policy Committee approved the new FFY2020-2025 TIP during a Special 
meeting on July 25, 2019. 
 
The projects currently on the FFY2020-2025 TIP or pending are listed below. 
 
TRACKING INFORMATION (2018-2023 TIP)
Local Agreement Status (ARF) 
ROW Certification 
Design Completion 30 – 60 – 90% 
Environmental Certification 
Utilities Certification 
Railroad Certification 
Archeology Certification 
ITS/Sys ENG Certification 
Public Involvement Certification 
 
 
PROJECTS ON FMPO  FFY2020-2025 TIP
 
Aztec 
F100091 – East Aztec Arterial Phase II 
 
Bloomfield 
F100300 – East Blanco Bridge 
 
Farmington 
F100099 – Foothills Drive Enhancement Phase II 
F100100 – East Pinon Hills Blvd Extension Phase I 
F100101 – East Pinon Hills Blvd Extension Phase II 
F100132 – 20th Street Phase III 
TF00001 – Red Apple Transit 
 
San Juan County  
F100021 – East Pinon Hills Blvd Extension Phase III 
F100240 – Glade Run Recreation Area Trails 
F100290 – CR 5500 Bridge Replacement 
F100320 – Kirtland Schools Walk Path Extension 
F100330 – Glade Run Recreation Area Trails Extension 
F100360 – CR 3000 Bridge Replacement 
F100370 – CR 3500 Bridge Replacement 
 
NMDOT 
F100170 - NM 173 Safety Improvements 
F100340 – US 550 Pavement Rehab 
45
F100350 – NM 371/N36 (PE) 
F100351 – NM 371/N36 (Const) 
 
 
INFORMATION ITEM
 
This is an information item only. Committee members will have an opportunity to 
provide any needed feedback/updates regarding current TIP projects status and 
details. 
 
 
 
 
46
FARMINGTON METROPOLITAN PLANNING ORGANIZATION 
Agenda Item #9 
 
 
 
Subject:
Committee Member Discussion Items
Date: 
June 10, 2020
 
 
 
 
DISCUSSION ITEMS
 
There were no additional discussion items provided by Technical Committee members 
for inclusion in the Agenda. 
 
 
 
47
FARMINGTON METROPOLITAN PLANNING ORGANIZATION 
Agenda Item #10 
 
 
 
Subject:
Information Items
Prepared by: 
MPO Staff 
Date: 
June 10, 2020
 
 
 
INFORMATION ITEMS
 
a. City of Farmington’s Off Road Vehicle Trail Head Map. 
 
The City of Farmington has prepared an Off Road Vehicle Trail Head Map. This 
map identifies access to BLM and federal lands from public and private roads 
within the municipal boundary. 
 
The purpose of this map is twofold: to  
 
 
Support the City’s Outdoor Recreation Industry Initiative (ORII). This 
map provides access information to residents and tourists. 
 
 
Identify accesses that have become problematic to surrounding 
residences and eliminate them from any official, approved access. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48
HOOD MESA
COLIBRI
ENSENADA
TAMPICO
MAIN
PINON HILLS
MURRAY
BISTI
BLOOMFIELD
BROADWAY
BROWNING
LA PLATA
MAIN
30TH
20TH
BUTLER
APACHE
FOOTHILLS
TWIN PEAKS
COLLEGE
SULLIVAN
TROY KING
HUTTON
SOUTHSIDE RIVER
MUNICIPAL
 Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AeroGRID,
IGN, and the GIS User Community
·
0
1
0.5
Miles
Off Road Vehicle Trail Heads
Legend
City Boundary
Water Bodies
Roads
Access Points
The data herein is general in nature and not assumed to be complete nor accurate in its entirety and is therefore to be used with all discretions necessary. The data portrayed should
not be relied upon to establish legal title, boundary lines,the precise location of improvements, utilities, ownership, maintenance, easements, or public right-of-ways.
49
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The minutes from the 
 
May 20, 2020 
 
Technical Committee meeting 
 
are on the following pages. 
 
 
 
50
M I N U T E S 
FARMINGTON METROPOLITAN PLANNING ORGANIZATION 
TECHNICAL COMMITTEE MEETING 
May 20, 2020 
 
Technical Members Present: 
Steven Saavedra, City of Aztec
Jason Thomas, City of Bloomfield
Virginia King, City of Farmington
Javier Martinez, NMDOT District 5
Andrew Montoya, Red Apple Transit
Fran Fillerup, San Juan County
Nick Porell, San Juan County
Dan Flack, Town of Kirtland
 
Technical Members Absent: 
None
 
Staff Present: 
 
Peter Koeppel, MPO Officer
Beth Escobar, Community Works Planning Manager 
Kathryn Leys, MPO Associate Planner
June Markle, Administrative Assistant
 
Staff Absent: 
 
None
Others Present: 
Rosalyn Fry, City of Aztec Policy Committee Member
Aaron Sussman, Bohannan Huston (phone)
Joseph Moriarty, Planning Liaison, NMDOT
Scott Martin (Alt), San Juan County
Michael Wright, Sites Southwest
 
Due to the ongoing COVID-19 health concerns, the members of the Technical 
Committee listed above as “Technical Members Present” attended via GoToMeeting, 
as did Peter Koeppel, Beth Escobar, and those listed as “Others Present”. Chair 
Porell, Kathryn Leys, and June Markle attended in person. 
 
1. CALL TO ORDER 
 
Chair Nick Porell called the meeting to order at 10:02 a.m. and asked for a roll call of 
those in attendance.  
 
2. WELCOME NEW MPO EMPLOYEES 
Chair Porell welcomed the two new FMPO staff members who introduced themselves 
to the members: 
 
MPO Officer Peter Koeppel began work for the City of Farmington on April 27 but, due 
to COVID-19, his move has been delayed. Mr. Koeppel is currently working remotely 
from St. Louis, Missouri and expects to move to Farmington shortly. Mr. Koeppel 
reported that for the previous eight years he was the Manager of Long Range Planning 
for the East-West Gateway Council of Governments in St. Louis. 
The new MPO Associate Planner is Kathryn Leys and she came on board with the City 
of Farmington the first part of April. She is from St. Paul, Minnesota where she worked 
51
for the Metropolitan Council. She said she looked forward to being involved with the 
MPO and the exciting new future projects.  
 
3. APPROVE THE MINUTES FROM THE MARCH 11, 2020 TECHNICAL COMMITTEE 
MEETING  
 
Mr. Thomas moved to approve the minutes from the March 11, 2020 Technical 
Committee meeting. Mr. Saavedra seconded the motion. The motion to approve the 
minutes passed unopposed. 
 
Due to the health concerns of COVID-19, the scheduled Technical Committee meeting 
of April 8, 2020 had been cancelled.  
 
4. REPORT ON THE 2045 METROPOLITAN 
 
 
 
Subject: 
Report on the 2045 Metropolitan Transportation 
Plan (MTP) Update 
Date: 
March 11, 2020
 
 
 
MONTHLY REPORT
 
Mr. Aaron Sussman, Planner with Bohannan Huston (BHI) will call in monthly with a 
report on the Metropolitan Transportation Plan (MTP) Update. 
 
 
DISCUSSION: Aaron Sussman provided a detailed update on BHI’s work on the FMPO’s 
2045 MTP. Below is a summary of Mr. Sussman’s presentation: 
 
Progress to Date 
Public Outreach 
 
 
 
 
Chapters Complete 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Transit 
Data Collection/Existing 
 
 
     Bicycle-Pedestrian 
Conditions Analysis 
 
 
 
     Safety 
 
Travel Modeling 
 
 
 
Chapters Submitted for Review 
     Existing Conditions  
 
 
     Introduction/Complete Streets 
     2045 No-Build 
 
 
 
     Freight 
     DRAFT 2045 Build 
 
The Travel Demand Model has more recently updated projections for population/employment; 
however, they pre-date COVID and the closure of the San Juan Generating Station, but which 
are updated from the 2040 MTP which showed a greater level of growth. 
 
The Bicycle-Pedestrian chapter will be revised to include consideration of off-road vehicles 
and access to federal lands and recreation areas.   
 
Public Input 
The questionnaire for the 2045 MTP project was posted online from October 2019 through 
February 2020. The questionnaire received 124 public comments. Of that number, 84% were 
people who drive alone to work; 6% carpool to work; 8% were by other means; about 2% were 
52
walkers; no bikers or bus riders. With the auto-oriented responses, most participants thought 
there was little to no traffic congestion and almost 40% said the transportation system met 
their needs moderately well.  
 
Top Regional Challenges (up to 3) 
     Traffic Congestion  
 
19.7% 
     Access to Jobs and Services  
31.2% 
     Mobility for Seniors/ADA 
 
35.3% 
     Highway Safety 
 
 
40.2% 
    Connections Outside of Region 
43.4% 
     Pedestrian/Bicycle Safety 
 
44.3% 
     Lack of Public Transit 
 
59.0% 
 
Regional Travel Modeling 
Use travel model as diagnostic tool: review locations where conditions worsen over time; 
evaluate benefits of proposed projects 
 
Recognize limitations: regional travel versus location-specific congestion operations 
improvements not considered in model but provide great benefits. 
 
Next steps: reconsider previously proposed projects?; option to evaluate scenarios. 
 
 
Regional Model Inputs  
 
 
 
What is Not Included in Regional Model 
     Updated population and employment 
      
     Intersection improvements 
        Projections 
 
 
 
        
     Rehabilitation/maintenance 
     Roadway projects (new lanes/new roadways) 
     Operations enhancements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Bicycle/pedestrian projects 
 
Mr. Sussman noted that the previous MTP had growth rates at around 40-50% out to 2040. 
Conditions have changed and the 2045 MTP is projecting growth levels at 8%. This is major 
input to the travel demand model. 
 
Travel Model Scenarios 
Existing Conditions (2018) 
 
 
 
2045 Build Scenario 
     Includes current population/employment 
 
     Project population/employment 
     Recently completed projects 
 
 
     Projects proposed 2024-2045 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Based on project list from 2040 MTP 
2045 No Build Scenario 
     Projected population/employment 
     Projects under construction or funded near term 
    “What happens if we don’t do anything” 
 
Existing Conditions (2018) - Major Capacity Projects 
Includes current population/employment; recently complete projects. 
 
53
 
 
 
    
The green lines show very low levels of congestions from standpoint of demand vs. roadway 
capacity (roadway space). There is no roadway demand exceeding supply across the region. 
 
2045 No Build 
This scenario assumes the 8% population growth across the region, but do not build beyond 
what is funded or under construction (assumes completion of U.S. 64 and Downtown Main 
Street in Farmington, but not the East Arterial in Aztec nor the Pinon Hills extension or river 
crossing). There is a little more traffic in this scenario, but it is still below the roadway 
capacity. 
54
 
 
2045 Build 
This scenario shows building all previously identified projects out to 2045.  
 
 
 
Summary Statistics 
 
FMPO Region 
 
Average Speed 
Vehicle Miles
Traveled 
Vehicles Hours 
Traveled 
Vehicle Hours
of Delay 
2018 Existing Conditions 
35.6
182,008
5,116
60 
2045 No Build 
34.9
227,556
6,522
154 
2045 Build 
35.6
226,942
6,376
135 
Difference: 2045 NB vs. 2018 
-2.0%
25.0%
27.5%
156.7%
Difference: Build vs. No Build 
2.0%
-0.3%
-2.2%
-11.7%
55
Using this information and the map showing the change in volume/capacity ratio, Mr. Sussman 
wants to speak again with the Technical Committee members to determine which projects will 
have the most impact and which projects should be prioritized in the 2045 MTP. 
 
Takeaways 
Where congestion exists, it is related to individual intersections. 
Best addressed through operations improvements rather than additional capacity. 
Future growth levels are modest; no significant increases in congestions are projected. 
Previous MTP responded to high levels of growth – identified roadway widening projects and  
     new roadways. 
2045 MTP No Build scenario indicates network can manage long-term travel demands without  
     major capacity expansion. 
 
Chair Porell agreed that the capacity is already available to handle the traffic volume 
and region needs to look at maximizing the lanes that are currently available (i.e.: 
signalization coordination projects).   
 
Regional Priorities 
Use limited funding wisely; new capacity requires additional maintenance; 
Account for roadway maintenance and rehabilitation needs; 
Safety improvements: 
     Access management along major roads/highways 
     Additional infrastructure for non-auto modes/ADA accessibility 
Quality of life investments: 
     Trails, bikeways. Complete Streets – benefits for users of all modes (consistent with  
     federal priorities. 
 
Mr. Sussman provide some information about the long-term potential transportation 
impacts of COVID-19. The Technical Committee did not think they were in a position 
to make any significant recommendations on trying to forecast the impact to 
transportation due to challenges raised by COVID-19 and preferred to use the currently 
available data. Chair Porell referenced the box on Page 2 of the Introduction that, 
very generally, references the impacts of COVID-19 and provides a caveat for future 
changes and potential impacts. There was also some discussion about the overall 
impact of oil/gas pricing to future transportation scenarios. 
 
For the next steps, Mr. Sussman is looking for feedback and input on the goals and 
objectives as well as finalizing the project lists to be included in the 2045 MTP. 
 
Mr. Sussman said that this presentation would be posted on the project website 
(http://fmpo2045mtp.bhinc.com/) for public input. He also discussed holding some 
virtual open houses in June with a final public outreach event(s) in August. The 
Technical Committee members thought that public participation in this type of event 
would be limited and wondered if there were ways to augment this.  It was 
recommended to look at having a computer link, a Facebook post or a Facebook live 
meeting. Ms. Escobar stated that staff is working with the City of Farmington to 
establish a strong Facebook presence for the MPO. 
 
5. AMENDMENT #3 TO THE FFY2020-2025 TIP 
 
 
 
Subject:
Amendment #3 to the FFY2020-2025 TIP  
56
Prepared by: 
Peter Koeppel, MPO Officer
Date: 
May 20, 2020
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The Call for Projects for the FFY2020-2025 TIP Amendment #3 was sent out 
on March 24, 2020 and April 1. 
 
The Public Notice for Amendment #3 to the FFY2020-2025 TIP was published 
on the MPO’s website and in the Daily Times on May 10. 
 
The amendment currently includes two new San Juan County bridge projects.
 
The Technical Committee will consider recommending approval of proposed 
Amendment #3 to Policy Committee at their meeting on May 20. 
 
AMENDED TIP PROJECTS
 
San Juan County’s projects are for two bridge projects for STIP Year 2025: 
- 
Bridge 3121 
- 
Bridge 8111 
 
ACTION ITEM
 
Staff recommends that the Technical Committee consider recommending 
approval to the Policy Committee of proposed Amendment #3 to the FFY2020-
2025 TIP. 
 
The Policy Committee will consider approval of proposed Amendment #1 to the 
FFY2020-2025 TIP at their May 28, 2020 meeting. 
 
APPLICABLE CITATIONS
 
§ 450.328 TIP revisions and relationship to the STIP.
 
(a) An MPO(s) may revise the TIP at any time under procedures agreed to by 
the cooperating parties consistent with the procedures established in this 
part for its development and approval. In nonattainment or maintenance 
areas for transportation-related pollutants, if a TIP amendment involves non-
exempt projects (per 40 CFR part 93), or is replaced with an updated TIP, 
the MPO(s) and the FHWA and the FTA must make a new conformity 
determination. In all areas, changes that affect fiscal constraint must take 
place by amendment of the TIP. The MPO(s) shall use public participation 
procedures consistent with § 450.316(a) in revising the TIP, except that these 
procedures are not required for administrative modifications.) After approval 
by the MPO(s) and the Governor, the State shall include the TIP without 
change, directly or by reference, in the STIP required under 23 U.S.C. 135. In 
nonattainment and maintenance areas, the FHWA and the FTA must make a 
conformity finding on the TIP before it is included in the STIP. A copy of the 
approved TIP shall be provided to the FHWA and the FTA. 
 
(c) The State shall notify the MPO(s) and Federal land management agencies 
when it has included a TIP including projects under the jurisdiction of these 
agencies in the STIP. 
 
 
57
DISCUSSION: Mr. Koeppel reported that TIP Amendment #3 includes two San Juan 
County bridge projects for STIP year 2025 and noted that the project background 
information and advertising information is part of the Agenda packet:  
 
Bridge 3121 on CR 3000 
 
Bridge 8111 on CR 3500 
 
Staff recommends that the Technical Committee recommend approval of TIP 
Amendment #3 to the Policy Committee. 
 
Chair Porell commented that these are two aging 1970-era bridges, one on the east 
side of the river and one on the west which are low volume but crucial to residents of 
the area. A bridge prioritization study was completed in 2015 and, next to the bridge 
currently being replaced on CC5500, these were the next two in priority. San Juan 
County will not be able to fund these bridges with the general fund or GRT and will 
need either a bond initiative or grant funding. These two bridges will also be 
incorporated into the 2045 MTP. 
 
Chair Porell opened the public hearing. No public comments were received. The public 
hearing was closed. 
 
Action: Mr. Thomas moved to recommend approval to the Policy Committee of 
proposed TIP Amendment #3 and the proposed Self-Certification to Amendment #3. 
Ms. Escobar seconded the motion. The motion passed with no opposition. 
 
6. FFY2021-2022 PROPOSED UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM (UPWP) 
 
 
 
Subject: 
FFY2021-2022 Proposed Unified Planning Work 
Program (UPWP) 
Prepared by: 
Peter Koeppel MPO Officer
Date: 
May 20, 2020
 
 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
The Unified Planning Work Program (UPWP) is the MPO’s work plan for two 
federal fiscal years. The UPWP pairs the MPO’s required work tasks/products with 
the MPO’s anticipated funding.  
 
The FFY2021-2022 UPWP will cover planning activities and work products to be 
completed from October 1, 2020 to September 30, 2022. 
 
Based on the Planning Procedures Manual (PPM), the MPO needed to provide a 
draft UPWP to NMDOT in late April, and have that draft reviewed for a 
recommendation/approval by the Committees in June.  
 
This month, we are asking both Committees to review the draft of the FFY2021-
2022 Unified Planning Work Program, providing us with input. A copy of the most 
current draft is enclosed.  
 
A 30-day public comment period will be noticed from May 24, 2020 to June 22, 
2020.  
 
Page 9 of the document outlines the five major work program tasks for the MPO; 
these tasks are based on a format provided by NMDOT. Subtasks are listed below. 
You should be aware that the same numbering system is utilized in the MPO’s 
58
quarterly invoicing system and in our financial reports, including the Annual 
Performance & Expenditure Report (APER), which we prepare and submit at the 
end of every FFY. 
 
CURRENT WORK
 
Annual activities in the UPWP include administering the MPO’s programs, TIP 
development and management, development of performance measures, GIS 
activities, Safe Routes to School activities, transit data collection and mapping. 
 
Major activities for the FFY2021-2022 UPWP will include the implementing the 
policies of the 2045 Metropolitan Transportation Plan, land-use and transportation 
planning support activities, transportation performance management, and travel 
demand modeling updates.   
 
Per NMDOT direction, staff projects that FHWA PL funds of $244,019.97 and FTA 
5303 funds of $74,386.25 (both including local matches) for each of the two (2) 
federal fiscal years will be available. Those numbers are subject to change.  
 
 
INFORMATION ITEM
 
It is recommended that the Technical Committee provide staff with input on the 
proposed UPWP. We also ask that the meeting be opened up for public comments. 
 
 
DISCUSSION: Mr. Koeppel presented a brief overview of the draft FFY2021-2022 UPWP 
that is the work program and budget for the FMPO. The UPWP is a federally required 
document identifying the planning priorities and activities to be carried out with an 
metropolitan planning area to ensure the three C’s process: continuing, cooperative, 
and comprehensive planning process. The document requires fiscal constraint so the 
revenues must match the identified tasks.  
 
There are five general planning categories: 
 
Program Administration and Management 
o Behind the scenes administrative work to keep the MPO operating 
(budget, training, billing, website maintenance, coordinating with 
NMDOT and FTA, etc.) 
 
Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) 
o Maintenance of the TIP and work with transit providers to ensure all 
projects are listed appropriately as the TIP must include all regionally 
significant projects to receive federal funding. To receive federal 
funding the projects must be shown in the TIP, MTP and UPWP. 
 
General Development and Data Collection/Analysis 
o Technical side: traffic counts, GIS, modeling, other data collection in 
assistance of partner governments. 
 
Transportation Planning 
o Data collected feeds into the MTP, safety analysis and planning, 
bike/pedestrian planning/complete streets, transit system studies, 
access management plan and providing planning support.  
 
Special Studies and Activities 
o Plans and projects of importance to member entities and the region as a 
whole (public health activities, storm water management, travel and 
tourism, and regional models of cooperation. 
59
The budget summary is on Pages 28 and 29 of the proposed UPWP document (provided 
to Technical Committee members separately from the Agenda). The budget will 
remain the same for the two years of the UPWP and is made up of the federal shares 
and the local matches – FHWA match is 14.56% and FTA match if 20%. The last 
transportation bill, the FAST Act, expires at the end of September 2020 and it is 
unknown if it will be extended beyond September. 
 
A draft of the FFY2021-2022 UPWP was submitted to NMDOT and their comments have 
been received and will be incorporated into the final draft. The Policy Committee will 
review this proposed document on May 28 and be asked to provide their comments and 
input. The final draft will be presented to both Committees in June for final approval. 
 
The Technical Committee encouraged the new MPO staff to provide their thoughts and 
recommendations and, perhaps, bring some new and innovative ideas to developing 
this work plan for the MPO. 
 
7. STATUS OF TIP PROJECTS 
 
 
 
Subject:
Status of TIP Projects
Prepared by: 
MPO Staff
Date: 
May 20, 2020
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The STIP Protocols, finalized in early 2014, require that each MPO shall develop a 
process to monitor the progress and status of each project in the first two years 
of the TIP. These monthly reviews help correct inconsistencies in the TIP, STIP, 
the MPO’s MTP, Agreement Request Forms (ARFs), etc. and provide for discussion 
among the members and NMDOT representatives. 
 
The Policy Committee approved the new FFY2020-2025 TIP during a Special 
meeting on July 25, 2019. 
 
The projects currently on the FFY2020-2025 TIP are listed below. 
 
TRACKING INFORMATION (2018-2023 TIP)
Local Agreement Status (ARF) 
ROW Certification 
Design Completion 30 – 60 – 90% 
Environmental Certification 
Utilities Certification 
Railroad Certification 
Archeology Certification 
ITS/Sys ENG Certification 
Public Involvement Certification 
 
 
PROJECTS ON FMPO  FFY2020-2025 TIP
 
Aztec 
F100091 – East Aztec Arterial Phase II 
 
Bloomfield 
F100300 – East Blanco Bridge 
 
Farmington 
F100099 – Foothills Drive Enhancement Phase II 
60
F100100 – East Pinon Hills Blvd Extension Phase I
F100101 – East Pinon Hills Blvd Extension Phase II 
F100132 – 20th Street Phase III 
TF00001 – Red Apple Transit 
 
San Juan County  
F100021 – East Pinon Hills Blvd Extension Phase III 
F100240 – Glade Run Recreation Area Trails 
F100290 – CR 5500 Bridge Replacement 
F100320 – Kirtland Schools Walk Path Extension 
F100330 – Glade Run Recreation Area Trails Extension 
 
NMDOT 
F100170 - NM 173 Safety Improvements 
F100340 – US 550 Pavement Rehab 
F100350 – NM 371/N36 (PE) 
F100351 – NM 371/N36 (Const) 
 
INFORMATION ITEM
 
This is an information item only. Committee members will have an opportunity to 
provide any needed feedback/updates regarding current TIP projects status and 
details. 
 
DISCUSSION: The Technical Committee members provided their TIP project updates: 
 
City of Aztec – Steven Saavedra 
Mr. Saavedra had no update on the East Aztec Arterial. Waiting to hear from the state 
legislature if any of the funding earmarked for this project will still be available. Along 
with the state and federal funds, the City of Aztec received $3,000,000 in capital 
outlay funds last year. 
 
Chair Porell recommended that the City of Aztec encumber funds and request 
reimbursement now for any monies already spent on the project. This will help to lock 
up funds when the special legislative session is called in June or July. 
 
City of Bloomfield – Jason Thomas 
Mr. Thomas reported that the project encountered a small issue with an extension 
request, but NMDOT was able to quickly sort it out. The PS&E meeting was held on 
May 7. The advertising for Phase I of this project (utilities) is expected to go out in the 
next week or so. 
 
City of Farmington – Virginia King 
Foothills Drive Enhancement Phase II 
Ms. King reported that the signed contract has been sent to NMDOT. They are waiting 
to schedule the PS&E, which should be held within the next week. 
 
Pinon Hills Boulevard Extension Phases I and II 
The City of Farmington is still in discussion with NMDOT on this project and are 
awaiting an expected email from Sharon Cruz with North Region Design. 
 
 
 
61
20th Street Phase III 
This project is in the design process and they have begun the appraisal process. They 
are waiting on 11 of the 20 TCPs that are needed.  
 
San Juan County – Nick Porell 
Pinon Hills Boulevard Extension Phase III 
Chair Porell stated that San Juan County is evaluating appraisal and right-of-way 
options. A BUILD grant was submitted in partnership with the City of Farmington on 
May 18 for construction funding. Changes in the 2045 MTP may force the prioritization 
of this project to be re-evaluated.  
 
Glade Run Recreation Area Trails 
Construction fund have been obligated and construction is scheduled for July-
September 2020. It is hoped that this project can be completed in time for the 
planned New Mexico Outdoor Economics Conference that will hopefully still occur on 
October 1-2, 2020.  
 
CR 5500 Bridge Replacement 
Offers have been made for right-of-way acquisitions and six of the eight offers were 
accepted. Secondary negotiations with the remaining two land owners is ongoing. A 
pre-construction notification has been submitted to the US Army Corps of Engineers 
because of the presence of the Colorado pike minnow and razorback sucker. US Fish & 
Wildlife Service must also provide their concurrence.  
 
Kirtland Schools Walk Path Extension 
San Juan County is waiting to receive the TAP agreement on this project. Chair Porell 
asked if Mr. Moriarty would follow up on this with Maggie Moore. 
 
Glade Run Recreation Area Trails Extension 
The agreement from NMDOT was received. Project is being advertised for design-build 
project execution with the pre-bid meeting scheduled for next week. 
 
NMDOT – Javier Martinez 
NM 173 
Mr. Martinez stated that this project is fully designed, shelf ready, and in the STIP for 
2022. If funding becomes available sooner, the project may move this up. This project 
requires the City of Aztec to move a water line that they are currently unable to move 
forward in the anticipated time frame. 
 
US 550 Pave Rehabilitation 
The survey work for this project is complete and the design work will now begin. 
 
NM 371/Navajo 36 
The preliminary engineering on this project is at 90% and almost ready for PS&E 
 
NM 371/Navajo 
The construction funding for this project, which was to be $1,300,000 in capital outlay 
fund, is currently frozen.  
 
62
Chair Porell commented on the priority of this project. A recent fatality has re-
emphasized the need for a signalized intersection. 
 
8. PROPOSED CHANGES TO JOINT POWERS AGREEMENT AND COMMITTEE BYLAWS 
AND OPERATING PROCEDURES 
 
 
 
Subject:
Review and provide comments  on the Joint 
Powers Agreement (JPA) and Committee 
Bylaws and Operating Procedures proposals 
Prepared by: 
Beth Escobar, AICP, Interim MPO Officer 
Date: 
May 20, 2020
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The cities of Aztec, Bloomfield, and Farmington, and San Juan County 
formed and have participated in the Metropolitan Planning Organization 
through the Joint Powers Agreement (JPA) since 2003. Kirtland was added to 
the FMPO in June 2018. 
 
Recommended changes include: clean-up of both documents and also adding 
an option to hold virtual meetings when necessitated by health concerns. 
CURRENT WORK
 
The 30-day public review period will be posted on May 24, 2020.  
 
Action on the JPA and the Committee Bylaws documents will be sought in 
June. 
ACTION ITEM
 
Provide comments and recommendations to the proposed JPA and 
Committee Bylaws documents.  
 
Members of the Tech Committee are encouraged to discuss the proposals 
with their managers and Policy Committee members. 
 
It is anticipated that the final JPA and Committee Bylaws will be considered 
for approval by the MPO Policy Committee on June 25, 2020. If approved 
then, consideration of the proposed JPA by the boards, councils, or 
commissions of the individual member entities will be scheduled in July. 
Upon completion of the adoption process, the JPA will be sent to the NM 
Department of Finance and Administration for State Review/Approval.   
APPLICABLE CITATIONS
 
23 U.S. Code § 134 - Metropolitan transportation planning
 
23 CFR 450.310 - Metropolitan planning organization designation and re-
designation 
 
23 CFR 450.314 - Metropolitan planning agreements 
 
23 U.S. Code § 134 - Metropolitan transportation planning 
 
Joint Powers Agreement Act, being Sections 11-1-1 et. Seq., NMSA 1978, as 
amended. 
63
 
NMDOT Planning Procedures Manual, Metropolitan Planning Organizations, 
Internal Structure, pages 46-48 
 
DISCUSSION: Ms. Escobar presented the proposed minor modifications to the Joint 
Powers Agreement (JPA) and the Committee Bylaws which both expire in September. 
Changes to the JPA include updating the list of current members to the Committees 
and updates to the Census population numbers. 
 
Changes to the Committee Bylaws are also mostly minor updates although the ability 
to hold virtual meetings in the case of a public health emergency is being added.  
 
Drafts of both of these documents are available for Technical Committee review and 
input. Ms. Escobar asked the members to please provide their comments to her or Mr. 
Koeppel. The final draft documents will be brought back to the Technical Committee 
for recommended approval in June. 
 
Mr. Saavedra asked that the attendance requirement in the Bylaws be made consistent 
throughout the document. Ms. Escobar said she would review the document to ensure 
the required in-person attendance is shown as 75%. She will also add wording to allow 
virtual attendance to count as in-person attendance.    
 
9. QUARTERLY EDUCATION: INRIX U.S. NATIONAL TRAFFIC VOLUME SYNOPSIS 
 
 
 
Subject:
INRIX U. S. National Traffic Volume Synopsis  
Prepared by: 
Beth Escobar, AICP, Interim MPO Officer 
Date: 
May 20, 2020
 
 
 
PRESENTATION
 
INRIX is a private company providing location-based data and analytics related to 
traffic and transit.  
 
On March 23, 2020, INRIX published a traffic volume synopsis comparing traffic 
volumes from March 14-20 to volumes in February, demonstrating a marked decrease 
in all categories of traffic, both nationwide and for specific large cities and 
metropolitan area, related to the COVID-19 pandemic and state instituted stay-at-
home orders. 
 
This data is provided as informational only. Staff was unable to find any more current 
data, but will keep tracking this phenomenon.  
 
DISCUSSION: Ms. Escobar explained that the information, INRIX U.S. National Traffic 
Volume Synopsis, provided by the APA (shown on pages 14-19 of the Agenda) actually 
reflects a recent week’s worth of data and shows a drastic reduction in ADT. The 
information also follows up on some of Mr. Sussman’s earlier presentation on the 2045 
MTP. Ms. Escobar thought that in the Farmington region the traffic has picked back up 
but not to the level of early March. 
 
64
The members discussed setting out traffic counters in possibly a handful of different 
MPO locations. The count information gathered could be beneficial for development of 
the MTP and good information for local elected officials. Ms. Escobar will ask the 
City’s Traffic Engineering Department to set out some counters on 20th and Main 
Streets. Chair Porell will get some traffic counters set out in several locations in the 
county and Aztec. 
 
10. CONSIDER LETTER OF SUPPORT – TRAIL OF THE ANCIENTS BYWAY 
 
 
 
Subject:
Letter of Support-Trail of the Ancients Byway  
Prepared by: 
Beth Escobar, AICP, Interim MPO Officer 
Date: 
May 20, 2020
 
 
 
PRESENTATION
The New Mexico Council of Governments and New Mexico Department of 
Transportation have requested a letter of support for the nomination for a National 
Scenic Byway designation for the portion of the Trail of the Ancients Byway within 
New Mexico. This designation would support the regional economy and facilitate the 
connection to the nationally designated Trail of the Ancients Byways in Utah and 
Colorado. 
 
Staff supports this endorsement. 
 
 
DISCUSSION: Chair Porell said he had been approached by Robert Kuipers of the RTPO 
(NWNMCOG) regarding this initiative. 
 
Ms. Escobar confirmed that the request for support of this initiative had come to her 
from the NWNMCOG. A copy of draft MPO letter of support is on Pages 21-22 of the 
Agenda. The letter of support is only for the portion of the Trail of the Ancients that is 
in New Mexico but would allow for the New Mexico section to connect to the Colorado 
and Utah portions of the Trail and eventually Arizona. Ms. Escobar added the potential 
for economic development in the region by increasing tourism and encouraging longer 
visitations. FMPO Staff supports this endorsement. 
 
Mr. Martinez commented that District 5 had written to the NWRTPO asking that they 
delete NM 57 from the map they had included in their byway nomination letter since 
the roadway dead-ends to nowhere. Ms. Escobar noted that the map shown on Page 20 
of the Agenda was not a part of the original endorsement letter and it would be 
deleted before being presented to the Policy Committee. 
 
Chair Porell asked if the Navajo Nation had been contacted for their support. Mr. 
Saavedra also asked about potential regulatory components or concerns in connection 
with this designation (i.e.: signage/billboard restrictions) or additional NMDOT 
requirements due to the designation. Mr. Martinez said he would have to check to see 
about potential signage restrictions or regulatory concerns that would need to be 
considered. 
 
65
Action: Chair Porell moved to table this Agenda Item until further clarification on the 
endorsement letter could be provided. Mr. Saavedra seconded the motion. The motion 
passed with no opposition. 
 
11. REPORTS FROM NMDOT 
District 5 – Javier Martinez 
Mr. Martinez reported that the expansion of US 64 is moving forward with completion 
expected in late summer. 
 
Planning Bureau – Joseph Moriarty 
Mr. Moriarty reported that he is working with Mr. Koeppel and Ms. Escobar on 
development of the FFY2021-2022 UPWP. The MPO should expect to receive the Notice 
to Proceed for these two years in September 2020. 
 
NMDOT is working on updating their Long Range Transportation Plan that will lead to 
development of the NM 2045 Plan. For more information and to complete a 
transportation survey, please visit:  NM2045Plan.com. Public outreach on this Plan is 
currently on hold. 
 
12. COMMITTEE MEMBER DISCUSSION ITEMS 
 
 
 
Subject:
Committee Member Discussion Items
Date: 
May 20, 2020
 
 
 
DISCUSSION ITEMS
Chair Porell restated the need for entities to encumber money against their capital 
outlay for projects funded by capital outlay or local government transportation funds. 
He said that the County had received a sizeable grant for the CR 5500 bridge. Chair 
Porell requested disbursement of those monies and, very quickly, NMDOT had 
processed the request. With the current funding uncertainties, need to show 
expenditures in order to retain transportation funding.  
 
There were no additional discussion items provided by Technical Committee members 
for inclusion in the Agenda. 
 
13. INFORMATION ITEMS 
 
 
 
Subject:
Information Items
Prepared by: 
MPO Staff 
Date: 
May 20, 2020
 
 
 
INFORMATION ITEMS
 
b. TIP Administrative Modifications. The TIP administrative modifications made 
in March and April will be briefly discussed. 
 
66
c. UPWP Amendment #6. Amendment #6 to the UPWP was necessitated to 
reduce the FMPO’s budget by $32.03 to align with adjusted FHWA and FTA 
grant award amounts. 
 
d. Committee Input on Future Committee Trainings. Please provide FMPO Staff 
with any recommendations on items of interest for future quarterly education 
presentations. 
 
e. Annual FMPO Quality Assurance Review (QAR). The MPO’s Annual Quality 
Assurance Review (QAR) with NMDOT was held on remotely on Wednesday, May 
13, 2020. Once finalized by NMDOT, results of the QAR will be shared with the 
Committee. 
 
DISCUSSION: Ms. Escobar reported on the Information Items: 
 
a. No TIP Administrative Modifications were processed in March or April. 
b. UPWP Amendment #6 to reduce the FMPO budget by $32.03 to align with the 
actual adjusted FHWA grant awards. 
 
c. Please provide Staff with any recommendations on any future committee 
trainings that would be of interest.  
 
A recent webinar on NMDOT’s right-of-way handbook was actually held on May 
19. Ms. Escobar will look into providing a link of the presentation to the 
Technical Committee members. 
 
d. The Annual Quality Assurance Review (QAR) was conducted with Mr. Moriarty 
on May 13. 
 
e. It would be appreciated if the Committee members would please provide the 
TIP project updates the week prior to the final committee agendas being sent 
out so they may become part of the public record (i.e.: for next meeting by 
June 3) 
 
14. BUSINESS FROM THE CHAIRMAN, MEMBERS AND STAFF 
 
Chair Porell congratulated Fran Fillerup and his wife on their new baby daughter born 
last week.  
 
There was no additional business from the Chairman, Members and Staff. 
 
15.  PUBLIC COMMENT ON ANY ISSUES NOT ON THE AGENDA  
 
A gentleman (Collin) from Sauder Miller participated in the GoToMeeting and asked 
about the County submitting an application for a possible rail project grant and he 
wondered if this was part of the MPO. 
 
Chair Porell said there is a multi-modal component in developing the 2045 MTP. The 
County submitted a $2,000,000 BUILD grant application for an in-depth environmental 
67
study for a rail corridor from Farmington to I-40. Mr. Fillerup noted that this is being 
addressed in the Rail Chapter of the 2045 MTP that is currently being drafted. 
 
Collin also asked about any other trail projects. There are some in the current TIP: 
Glade Run Trails under construction, Kirtland Schools Walk Path Extension is waiting 
on an agreement with NMDOT for design, and the Glade Run Recreation Trails 
Extension is out for design build-execution. For more of a focus on bike and 
pedestrian, the MPO’s Bike/Pedestrian Plan can be found on the MPO’s website. 
 
Ms. Escobar asked if, not knowing what the next couple of weeks may bring, the 
Committee would be receptive to holding the June 10 meeting with the same 
GoToMeeting set-up from the MPO Office. The Technical Committee members agreed 
this was a good idea. 
 
16. ADJOURNMENT 
  
Mr. Saavedra moved to adjourn the meeting. Chair Porell seconded the motion. The 
motion passed with no opposition. Chair Porell adjourned the meeting at 11:45 a.m.  
 
 
___________________________  
       ___________________________ 
 
Nick Porell, Technical Committee Chair 
       June Markle, Administrative Assistant 
 
68
