 
CITY COUNCIL 
MEETING AGENDA 
COUNCIL CHAMBER, 401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE, 
BOULDER CITY, NV  89005 
 
June 9, 2020 – 7:00 PM 
 
NOTICE 
Pursuant to Section 3 of the Declaration of Emergency Directive 006, there will be no 
in-person attendance at this meeting.  The public may view the meeting live at the 
following link: 
https://www.bcnv.org/191/City-Council-Meeting-Live-Stream-Video 
 
For information regarding Directive 006, see the following: 
http://gov.nv.gov/News/Emergency_Orders/2020/2020-03-22_-_COVID-
19_Declaration_of_Emergency_Directive_006/ 
 
Extensions of Directive 006 have been included in in Section 6 of Directive 16, Section 
23 of Directive 18, and currently Section 37 of Directive 21 found at the following link:  
https://nvhealthresponse.nv.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/Directive-021-Phase-Two-
Reopening-Plan.pdf 
 
 
ITEMS LISTED ON THE AGENDA MAY BE TAKEN OUT OF ORDER; TWO OR 
MORE AGENDA ITEMS FOR CONSIDERATION MAY BE COMBINED; AND ANY 
ITEM ON THE AGENDA MAY BE REMOVED OR RELATED DISCUSSION MAY BE 
DELAYED AT ANY TIME.  
 
CALL TO ORDER 
 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
ADMINISTRATION OF OATH OF OFFICE TO COURT ADMINISTRATOR CINDY 
GARCIA 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
1
PUBLIC COMMENT DURING THIS PORTION OF THE AGENDA MUST BE LIMITED TO 
MATTERS ON THE AGENDA FOR ACTION.   
Public comment, whether on an agenda item or general public comment, is limited to up 
to five minutes per person. Members of the public may participate in the meeting without 
being physically present by one of the following methods. 
 Written comments may be submitted via the Public Comment Form 
(https://www.bcnv.org/FormCenter/Contact-Forms-3/City-Council-Comment-
Form-111)  
 
 Written comments may be submitted by emailing cityclerk@bcnv.org. Written 
comments will be added to the record. 
   
 Public commenters may leave a voicemail at (702) 293-9210.  Messages received 
will be broadcast into the Council Chamber.  
 
 To comment during the meeting, members of the public may call (702) 589–9629 
when the public comment period is opened. 
 
FOR POSSIBLE ACTION:   APPROVAL OF REGULAR AGENDA 
FOR POSSIBLE ACTION:   APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA CONSENT AGENDA 
1. For possible action: Approval of minutes 
A. May 19, 2020 special City Council meeting 
B. May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 
C. May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting 
 
2. For possible action: Matters pertaining to Mutual Aid and Operations Plan Agreements 
between the City of Boulder City and the Bureau of Land Management and National 
Park Service, Lake Mead Recreation Area: 
 
A. Resolution No. 7111, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, approving 
Agreement No. 20-1887, an interlocal Cooperative Fire Protection agreement 
between the agencies 
 
B. Resolution No. 7112, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, approving 
Agreement No. 20-1888, the Operating Plan for Cooperative Fire Protection 
agreement between the agencies 
 
3. For possible action: Resolution No. 7113, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder 
City, approving Agreement No. 20-1889 between the City of Boulder City and the 
Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada to provide project funding 
for the Bicycle Path Asphalt Paving for the Hemenway Watershed Phase I I B, B.C. 
2
Project No. 09-0785-DR(2), and amending both the revenues and expenditures of the 
Fiscal Year 2019-2020 capital budget 
 
4. For possible action: Items pertaining to the Water Service Replacements FY19-20 – 
Coronado Estates, B.C. Project No. 20-1109-W D: 
 
A. Resolution No. 7114, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, awarding a  
bid for the Water Service Replacements  FY19-20 – Coronado Estates, B.C. 
Project No. 20-1109-W D (bids opened May 28, 2020; 4 bids received) 
 
B. Resolution No. 7115, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, amending 
and revising the Fiscal Year 2019-20  Capital Improvement Plan by reallocating 
funds from water utility capital projects to the Water Service Replacements FY19-
20 – Coronado Estates, B.C. Project No. 20-1109-W D 
 
5. For possible action: Resolution No. 7116, a resolution of the City Council of  Boulder 
City, approving Agreement No. 20-1890, an interlocal agreement between the City of 
Boulder City and the City of Las Vegas for the transfer of equipment and supplies 
provided through participation in the FY2018 Homeland Security Grant Program, 
funded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
 
REGULAR AGENDA 
 
6. For possible action: Consideration of Bill No. 1877, an Ordinance of the City of Boulder 
City, Nevada to amend Title 1, Chapter 9 of the City Code - Financial Administration 
– by amending Section 1-9-9 to update General  Fund unassigned  fund balance and 
the minimum  operating reserves in other operating funds of the City 
 
7.    Presentation from the Fire Chief to provide the Fire Department's annual report 
8.    For  Possible Action: Discussion and  approval of  hangar rental agreement format 
9. Public Comments 
Each person has up to five minutes to speak at the discretion of the Mayor/Chair.  Comments made 
during the Public Comment period of the agenda may be on any subject.  All remarks shall be 
addressed to the City Council/Board as a whole, not to any individual member of the Council/Board, 
of the audience, or of the City staff.  There shall be no personal attacks against the Mayor, members 
of the City Council, the City staff or any other individual.  No person, other than members of the City 
Council and the person who has the floor, shall be permitted to enter into any discussion, either 
directly or through a member of the Council without the permission of the Mayor or Presiding Officer.  
No action may be taken on a matter raised under this item upon which action will be taken. 
 
10. 
City Council’s Report 
 
3
Supporting Material:  Pursuant to Section 5 of Directive 006, the requirement contained 
in NRS 241.020(3)(c) that physical locations be available for the public to receive 
supporting material for public meetings has been suspended.  Staff reports and 
supporting material for the meeting are available on the City’s website at 
https://www.bcnv.org/AgendaCenter. Pursuant to NRS 241.020(6), supporting material is 
made available to the public at the same time it is provided to the City Council. 
Notice to persons with disabilities: Members of the public who are disabled and require 
special assistance or accommodations for the meeting are requested to notify the City 
Clerk by telephoning (702) 293-9208 at least seventy-two hours in advance of the 
meeting. 
This notice and agenda has been posted electronically in compliance with NRS 
241.020(3) at https://www.bcnv.org/AgendaCenter, and NRS 232.2175 at 
https://notice.nv.gov/.  For further information, please contact Lorene Krumm, City 
Clerk, 401 California Avenue, Boulder City, NV 89005, (702) 293-9208; 
lkrumm@bcnv.org. 
 
4
Approval of minutes
SUBJECT:
For possible action:  Approval of minutes
 
A.  May 19, 2020 special City Council meeting
B.  May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting
C.  May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
ATTACHMENTS:
Description
Type
May 19 regular CC DRAFT
Cover Memo
May 19 Public Comments
Cover Memo
May 19 Airport DRAFT min
Cover Memo
May 19 Airport Public Comments
Cover Memo
May 26 DRAFT minutes
Cover Memo
May 26 Public Comments
Cover Memo
5
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 1 
 
  
 
 
   
 
CITY COUNCIL 
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES 
 
  COUNCIL CHAMBER, 401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NEVADA 89005 
 
Tuesday, May 19, 2020 – 7:00 PM 
 
 
CALL TO ORDER  
 
The regular meeting of the Boulder City Council, County of Clark, State of Nevada, was 
called to order at 7:00 PM, Tuesday, May 19, 2020, in the Council Chamber, City Hall, 
by Mayor McManus in due compliance with the law, the Charter, and the Council's Rules 
of Procedure. 
 
Council members present: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard 
Adams, Council Member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Tracy Folda, Council 
Member Judith Hoskins (teleconference) (5)  
  
Absent:  None (0) 
 
Also present: City Manager Alfonso Noyola, City Attorney Steve Morris, City Clerk 
Lorene Krumm 
 
(Staff was in City Hall in their respective offices streaming the meeting in order to comply 
with the Governor's Emergency Directive)   
 
 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Mayor McManus explained the public meeting process under Governor Sisolak's 
Declaration of Emergency Directive 006. Public comments can be submitted via email 
or called in. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Fred Voltz requested that his comments be placed in the minutes record verbatim. 
(attached) 
 
Boulder City Chamber CEO Jill Lagan spoke to the mission of the Chamber of Boulder 
City. She explained the role of the Chamber to support the community and businesses 
by promoting tourism and participating in special events in conjunction with Boulder 
City. She said the Chamber was working to manage the challenging circumstances. 
6
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 2 
 
She noted many Chamber entities have contracts with cities and are subsidized by 
government entities.  She stated the Chamber does not pay rent and instead used its 
funds for advertising. She said the Chamber does not charge fees when promoting 
community events. She discussed the numerous activities the Boulder City Chamber 
helped to promote. 
 
The following people submitted written comments that were read into the record: 
 
Fred Bachhuber 
Blair Davenport 
Judy Dechaine 
Nancy Dineen 
Mark DuLaney 
Bob Fahnstock 
Glenn Feyen 
Charles Hauntz 
Chad Hesterman 
Scott Meyer 
Rich Moynihan 
Sharon Newby 
Sandi Pregler 
Mary Anne Ray 
Mary Shope 
Bruce Williams 
Glenn Youngs 
 
Valerie McNay stated that the Boulder City Chamber has achieved its mission and that 
the City should not be funding a 501c6 non-profit organization. She said the Chamber 
should be seeking space in the business community, not in the historic LADWP building, 
which provides emergency aid to the residents of Boulder City. She stated the concerns 
are that City employees wanted to remove Emergency Aid from the LADWP building. 
She said allowing the Chamber to utilize the LADWP building would be the first step in 
the process to remove Emergency Aid from the building. She noted Red Mountain Music 
Company is also in the building and loved by the community. She spoke to the various 
events that take place in the building. She asked that the Boulder City Chamber not be 
allowed to move to the LADWP building and provided potential places for the Chamber 
to relocate.   
 
Dani Whitely expressed her support for Simon Whitley of Papillon Helicopters as a 
potential candidate for the Airport Advisory Committee. 
 
No further comments were offered, and Mayor McManus closed public comment. 
 
FOR POSSIBLE ACTION: APPROVAL OF REGULAR AGENDA 
 
Motion: Approve the Regular Agenda 
 
Moved by: Council Member Bridges 
Seconded by: Council Member Folda 
7
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 3 
 
 
Vote: 
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard Adams, Council 
Member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Tracy Folda, Council Member Judith 
Hoskins (5) 
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
The motion was approved.  
 
FOR POSSIBLE ACTION:  APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA 
 
Motion:  Move Item No. 5 to the Regular Agenda, remove Item No. 4, and approve the 
Consent Agenda, as amended.  
 
Moved by: Council Member Folda   Seconded by: Council Member Adams 
 
Vote:   
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard Adams, Council 
Member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Tracy Folda, Council Member Judith 
Hoskins (5) 
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
The motion was approved.  
 
CONSENT AGENDA 
 
1. For possible action:  Approval of minutes 
  
A. April 14, 2020 regular City Council meeting 
B. April 21, 2020 special City Council meeting 
C. April 22, 2020 special City Council meeting 
D. April 28, 2020 regular City Council meeting 
 
2. For possible action:  Resolution No. 7091, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder 
City accepting the dedication of a portion of Adams Boulevard for right-of-way 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Finance Director Pelletier and included in the May 
12, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet 
 
8
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 4 
 
3. For possible action: Resolution No. 7092, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder 
City, awarding a bid for the 2019-20 Bicycle Lane Rehabilitation Program, BC Project 
No. 20-1104-STR (bids opened April 23, 2020; 2 bids received) 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Public Works Director Littrell and included in the 
May 12, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet 
 
 
4. For possible action: Resolution No. 7093 a resolution of the City Council of Boulder 
City, accepting and approving a Grant of Public Utility Easement Dedication for utility 
purposes located at 1101 Fifth Street, along the southern boundary next to Adams 
Boulevard 
 
This item had been removed from the agenda.  
 
5. For possible action: Resolution No. 7094, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder 
City, approving Agreement No. 20-1879 between the City of Boulder City and LGA 
Architecture, to provide professional services for the Railroad Museum Road, BC 
Project No. 20-1095-STR 
 
This item was moved to the Regular Agenda. 
 
6. For possible action: Resolution No. 7095, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder 
City, approving Agreement No. 20-1880 between the City of Boulder City and GCW, 
Inc., to provide professional services for the Arterial Reconstruction Program 2019-
20, BC Project No. 20-1101-STR 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Public Works Director Littrell and included in the 
May 12, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet 
 
7. For Possible Action: Resolution No. 7096, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder 
City, authorizing disbursement of RDA funds for eligible activities approved under 
RDA Resolution No. 222 for the property located at 550 Nevada Way 
A staff report had been submitted by Economic Development Coordinator Festekjian 
and included in the May 12, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet 
REGULAR AGENDA 
5. For possible action: Resolution No. 7094, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder 
City, approving Agreement No. 20-1879 between the City of Boulder City and LGA 
Architecture, to provide professional services for the Railroad Museum Road, BC 
Project No. 20-1095-STR 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Public Works Director Littrell and included in the 
May 12, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet 
 
9
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 5 
 
 
Public Works Director Littrell provided an overview of the staff report. He stated the 
contract was approximately $240,000 for the design. He stated LGA Architecture was 
selected because of an existing state contract and prior work completed for the 
conceptual design and layout of the park. 
 
Council Member Folda stated she had requested the item be brought back in order for 
some of her concerns to be addressed.  She said although a professional services 
contract did not require going out to bid, there should be a more transparent way to 
move forward since it was a public works project.  She said it was her concern that the 
process agreed to in 2018 be followed.  She asked if there was an existing written 
agreement with Boulder City and the State of Nevada regarding the easement. She said 
she had previously asked for this information.  
 
City Manager Alfonso Noyola stated it was his understanding the agreement between 
the State and City had a provision that neither party would withhold the ability to move 
forward with the project.   
 
Council Member Folda stated she was supportive of the project; however, she wanted 
the terms of the contract to be followed. She said she was not trying to delay the project. 
 
Council Member Adams expressed his disappointment that the item was postponed 
after the Council requested additional information, and although some information had 
been provided, not all information requested was received. He asked that any 
information be shared between all Council members.  
 
In response to a question by Council member Bridges, Public Works Director Littrell 
explained that the existing agreement states that Boulder City has an ownership over 
the section where a roadway was constructed. Additionally, the Railroad Museum has 
the rights to add improvements that will improve the site. He added the City could obtain 
a formal document signed by both the City and State saying a roadway can be 
constructed. 
 
Council Member Bridges clarified the City owns the property. 
 
City Manager Noyola stated a formal easement agreement could be created while the 
design process is taking place if the Council wished.  He said the design project was 
being funded by RTC.  He stated the RTC had also agreed to fund the contruction of 
the project.    
 
Council Member Hoskins agreed with Council Member Folda's interest in this matter. 
She said if Council member Folda was not comfortable because more information was 
needed, the item should wait until the information was provided.  
 
Mayor McManus reiterated the recitals section of the agreement. He said the project 
was critical to the success of Boulder City. He added that it would be wasteful to move 
10
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 6 
 
forward with a design contract before easement questions were answered. He had no 
objections to the item, but appreciated Council Member Folda bringing this matter 
forward. 
 
Motion:  Hold in abeyance until a written agreement regarding access can be provided 
between both parties. 
 
Moved by: Council Member Folda    Seconded by: Mayor McManus 
 
Vote:   
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard Adams, Council 
Member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Tracy Folda, Council Member Judith 
Hoskins (5) 
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
8. For possible action:  Matters pertaining to the RV Zone as proposed by Sonja 
Mongili: 
 
A staff report had been submitted by City Planner Danielewicz and included in the May 
12, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet 
 
Community Development Director Mays provided an overview of the staff report. He 
noted the Planning Commission recommended approval of the text amendment 
unanimously. He said support or denial of the request should be based on the findings 
as outlined in Section 2 of the bill.  
 
In response to a question by Council Member Adams, Community Development 
Director Mays confirmed if an approval were given, it would not apply to one RV park, 
but would be a zoning change. 
   
In response to questions by Mayor McManus, Community Development Director Mays 
stated if approved, the allowance of up to two residences becomes part of the zoning 
classification; however, HOA covenants and conditions would still apply.  He confirmed 
the text amendment was not approval for a particular location, but the appropriateness 
of the request regarding the whole zoning district. 
 
A. The public hearing on a proposed zoning ordinance text amendment 
 
Mayor McManus opened the public hearing. 
 
Applicant Sonja Mongili stated when she purchased the commercial building, she 
thought she would be able to open a mini market. She said she knew it was preferred 
the building be used for residential purposes, so she applied for the variance.   
 
11
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 7 
 
John Hartig stated he supported changing the zoning code to allow two permanent 
dwellings in an RV park.  
 
No further comments were offered; the public hearing was closed. 
  
B. Consideration of Bill No. 1869, an Ordinance of the City of Boulder City, Nevada 
to amend Title 11, Chapter 8 of the City Code to allow up to two permanent 
residences in an RV park  (AM-19-341) 
 
Council Member Adams commented he does not see how the request negatively 
impacts the City as a whole.  
 
In response to questions by Council member Folda, Director Mays replied that the 
code allows for certain supportive uses for an RV park. He said that the zoning was 
originally amended for one residence to allow the owner to live on-site and manage 
the property.  
 
Council member Folda expressed her concern regarding the City getting into an HOA 
dispute.  She said with the allowance of two residences on the property without the 
requirement to manage the property, she is concerned what happens down the road if 
the residences were bought and sold. She said she was not in favor of allowing 
residences on the property without the requirement of managing it. 
 
Council Member Bridges stated the HOA prevented the applicant from using this 
building as a convenience store. She said although the text amendment would apply 
to all RV parks, the RV park related to the matter was unique in that most residents 
are quasi permanent residents.  
 
Council Member Hoskins stated she was in favor of the amendment. She said the RV 
park is unique; everyone owns their own pad and live there most of the year.   
 
Mayor McManus clarified again when changes are made it is for the entire zoning 
classification; not for an individual property. He believed that two residences in the RV 
park would be beneficial, but he would be hesitant to allow more than two. He clarified 
the HOA and CC&R's conditions should have nothing to do with the Council's 
discussion. He felt there is a potential issue when zoning classifications are designed 
for particular uses. 
 
In response to a question by Council Member Folda, Community Development 
Director Mays replied that the intent of the proposed language is to allow two 
caretaker residences, or to have two permanent structures within an RV Park. 
 
Mayor McManus stated it was sufficient to state that two permanent residences were 
allowed in the RV park.  He said the HOA could manage the residences how they see 
fit. 
 
 
12
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 8 
 
Motion:  Approve Bill No. 1869 based on the following findings: 
 
• That the proposed amendment is in general conformance with the 
adopted Comprehensive Plan for the City. 
 
• That the proposed amendment promotes the health, safety, morals or the 
general welfare of the City. 
 
Moved by: Council Member Bridges     Seconded by: Council Member Adams 
 
Vote:   
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard Adams, Council 
Member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Judith Hoskins (4) 
 
NAY: Council Member Tracy Folda (1) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
The motion was approved.  
 
Bill No. 1869 will become known as Ordinance No. 1645 effective June 4, 2020. 
 
 
9. For possible action:  Matters pertaining to the RV Zone as proposed by Boulder 
Oaks Community Association: 
 
A staff report had been submitted by City Planner Danielewicz and included in the May 
12, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet. 
 
Community Development Director Mays provided an overview of the staff report. He 
stated the RV zoning district does not allow accessory structures such as sheds, 
gazebos, or pergolas in the Boulder Oaks RV Park. He said the applicant had submitted 
a text amendment requesting the allowance of permanent accessory structures. He said 
the request was supported 4-3 by the Planning Commission. 
 
In response to a question by Council Member Hoskins, Community Development 
Director Mays stated this item was in reference to accessory structures not currently 
allowed in the RV zoning district.  
 
Council Member Adams commented that he is more hesitant regarding this amendment.  
 
Nancy Hoffman, the applicant, stated the Boulder Oaks RV Community was built in the 
90’s and zoned RV Recreational although it was not a typical RV park.  She said the 
park was unique because the lots are individually owned and there is no park manager.  
She said the RV park is run by the HOA. She said RV communities are different 
compared to 35 years ago, and residents would like to upgrade their property, 
enhancing Boulder City. She said the average lot price was $72,000 in 2019, and the 
property value was rising. She stated accessory structures enhance the quality of life 
13
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 9 
 
for residents. She said once she was notified that accessory structures were not in the 
zoning code, she requested the amendment. She said there was a misstatement made 
previously in the meeting that the sheds were larger than what the City allows. She 
stated the residents want to work with the City and enhance the community; the 
proposals are specific and match the architectural guidelines.  
  
C. Public hearing on the proposed zoning ordinance text amendment. 
 
Mayor McManus opened the public hearing.  
 
Judy Dechaine stated she understands the need for accessory structures. She stated 
any permanent accessory structures should be limited to the same size of other 
accessory structures within the City which was 120 s.f.  
 
No additional comments were offered. The public hearing was closed. 
  
D. Consideration of Bill No. 1870, an Ordinance of the City of Boulder City, Nevada 
to amend Title 11, Chapter 8 of the City Code to allow permanent accessory 
buildings and structures on RV lots  (AM-20-346) 
 
Council Member Adams expressed hesitation in the overall nature of the structures. He 
agreed that RV park communities were changing, and accessory structures are needed. 
He appreciated the dedication to make the park nice. He noted the text amendment 
would apply to the entire zone.  He expressed concern with the interpretation of 
accessory structures by residents moving forward.  
 
In response to questions by Council Member Bridges, Community Development 
Director Mays confirmed a storage shed larger than 120 square feet requires a building 
permit; however, even smaller accessory structures must be submitted and reviewed 
for total lot coverage. He stated there was an allotted accessory structure square 
footage on a lot. He said current accessory structures at the RV park are not permitted 
because zoning does not allow it. He clarified the different requirements of the building 
code and zoning code.  
 
In response to a question by Council Member Folda, Community Development Director 
Mays replied both the building code and zoning code must be followed pertaining to 
accessory structures.  
 
Mayor McManus stated that he visits the park often, and it is well maintained. He said 
when considering the requests for allowing permanent structures in the RV park, it no 
longer becomes an RV park.  He said if it is the desire to have permanent structures, 
perhaps a new zoning classification should be considered. Adding permanent structures 
goes against the purpose of an RV park which is intended for short term living purposes. 
 
Council Member Adams concurred with Mayor McManus stating what is being proposed 
does not fit the current zoning and purpose of an RV Park.  
14
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 10 
 
 
In response to a question by Council Member Bridges, Community Development 
Director Mays responded part of the challenge was to determine what zoning category 
would be appropriate; there was not a current zone that would reflect this type of RV 
park. He stated the park fits the RV definition in the zoning code. He explained the 
challenge of creating a new zoning district, or changing the zoning to mobile home. 
 
Mayor McManus stated changing the zoning would require a great deal of consideration; 
it was not a simple matter.  
 
Council Member Folda added that structures with wheels are not permanent. If changed 
to mobile homes, the Council would need to consider many things, such as lot size and 
the Controlled Growth Ordinance. 
 
No action was taken.  Bill No. 1870 died. 
 
10. For possible action:  Matters pertaining to funeral homes and related uses 
as proposed by Tyson Smith: 
 
A staff report had been submitted by City Planner Danielewicz and included in 
the May 12, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet 
 
Community Development Director Mays provided an overview of the staff report. 
He noted the Planning Commission unanimously recommended approval of the 
text amendment. 
 
Council Member Bridges stated that the applicant requested a columbarium and 
funeral home but not a mausoleum. She questioned if columbarium and 
mausoleum could be separated in the amendment language. She said currently, 
cemeteries, columbarium, and mausoleums are a conditional use in multiple 
zoning districts, but funeral homes and mortuaries are not. 
 
In response to a question by Council Member Adams, Community Development 
Director Mays stated cremation would not be permitted within the City Zoning 
Code. 
 
In response to a question by Council Member Hoskins, Community Development 
Director Mays stated a request for a variance to allow the use would not have 
been the appropriate action; it required either rezoning or a text amendment. 
 
Council Member Folda stated there was very little C1 Zoning left in Boulder City. 
She said she would not want to see outdoor use or mausoleums. 
 
Applicant Tyson Smith stated he was considering the Colorado Street location; 
however, he was also looking for other available options. He stated funeral 
homes are a staple in every community. In the past ten years, he has looked to 
15
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 11 
 
improve services by relocating.  He provided numerous examples of other small 
communities where funeral homes were located in neighborhoods. He said a 
funeral home would not negatively affect property values. He said he was willing 
to speak with anyone who has questions. He said he has outgrown his facility in 
Boulder City and another location was needed in order to provide services to 
residents. Mr. Smith warned the Council the City was not prepared for COVID-
19 in terms of death.  
 
E. Public hearing on a proposed zoning ordinance text amendment 
 
Mayor McManus opened the public hearing.  
 
Judy Dechaine commented that she agrees with Mr. Smith. She has lived in major cities 
where funeral homes are within neighborhoods; funeral homes were not located in 
industrial areas. She did not understand how a funeral home could be detrimental to the 
community.  
 
Samantha Prestwich expressed her support of the request by Mr. Smith. She stated it 
would be a benefit to the community.  She mentioned that other large cities have these 
facilities located in the main areas and are a large part of communities. 
 
Glenn Feyen said a funeral home relocation to Colorado Street is a good idea, and a 
business of this type would make a good neighbor. He did not see any negative results 
by allowing this type of business in that location. 
 
Doug Broadbent stated he is a business owner next to Mr. Smith’s current location.  He 
stated Mr. Smith provides an exceptional level of service, above that of other funeral 
homes. He commented there has never been a problem working in the same building 
as the current funeral home. He said there had been no issues with parking or traffic. 
 
Meg Curtis commented she agreed with Doug Broadbent. She felt that Tyson Smith 
provides an exemplary service to Boulder City. 
 
Ellen Marie Ray stated she is opposed to the funeral home in her neighborhood.  She 
said everyone in her neighborhood opposed the request. She said she was only aware 
of the request by reading about it in the newspaper.  
 
Nancy Dineen commented that she lives on Denver Street and overlooks the property 
of the proposed funeral home. She stated the residents in the area were not notified of 
the proposed text amendment. She said she was opposed to the proposal and did not 
want to view the funeral home every day. She stated a funeral home in the neighborhood 
would bring down home values, and it was not the environment desired for Reflection 
16
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 12 
 
Park. She stated residents wanted to be allowed to attend the meeting in person as this 
matter affects their day-to-day life.  
 
No further comments were offered, and the public hearing was declared closed. 
 
Council Member Adams clarified that many comments were made regarding a specific 
location for the proposed use.  He said at this time, the matter to be considered relates 
to zoning.  He agreed that funeral homes are places of respect and solemnity and 
provided value and service to the community. He stated the service was needed and 
did not see how it was not an appropriate use for the area.  
 
Council Member Bridges agreed with the sentiments of Council Member Adams. She 
stated she lives within a couple of blocks of where the applicant has proposed his new 
location. She said there was a stigma associated with certain businesses. She stated 
the parking, traffic, and nature of the patrons would be different from the other types of 
businesses allowed in this zone. 
 
Council Member Folda stated that most other conditional uses in the C1 Zone were 
conducted indoors and the proposed use for funeral homes and related uses should be 
the same. She stated there should be a stipulation that columbaria and mausoleums 
would be indoor and separated in the text amendment. 
 
Council Member Hoskins commented there was an equal balance of those who were in 
support and those who were opposed to the amendment from the several emails and 
phone calls she received.   
 
Mayor McManus said this type of use is not a use he would want in his neighborhood. 
He detailed the limitations of the conditional uses currently allowed. He stated that there 
are few C1 zones remaining in Boulder City. He said the residents in the C1 Zone would 
be directly affected.  
 
A brief discussion followed regarding the history and zoning of the building on Colorado 
Avenue.  
 
Mayor McManus stated based on the feedback he has received, he was not able to 
support the request for the proposed text amendment.  
 
Council Member Hoskins commented that Mr. Smith had attended to her husband's 
death and was very helpful and respectful; however, she would base her decision 
specifically on the appropriateness of the Zoning Code.  
 
17
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 13 
 
In response to questions by Council Member Adams, Community Development Director 
Mays confirmed that if the text amendment was approved, the applicant would still be 
required to apply for a conditional use permit.  He provided an explanation of the appeal 
process.  
  
F. Consideration of Bill No. 1871, an Ordinance of the City of Boulder City, Nevada 
to amend Title 11, Chapter 10 of the City Code to allow funeral homes, 
mortuaries, and columbaria as a conditional use in the C1, Neighborhood 
Commercial Zone, and make related amendments to Chapters 3, 10 and 11 to 
clarify where these and related uses (cemeteries, mausoleums) are allowed  
(AM-20-347) 
 
Motion:  Amend Bill No. 1871 by removing mausoleums from the C1 Zone as a 
conditional use, and approve as amended with the findings.  
 
Moved by: Council Member Bridges    
 
Due to a lack of a second, the motion failed. 
 
Motion: Approve Bill No. 1871 
 
Moved By: Council Member Adams     Seconded by: Council Member Bridges. 
 
Vote:   
 
AYE:  Council Member Bridges, Council Member Adams 
 
NAY:  Mayor McManus, Council Member Folda, Council Member Hoskins. 
 
The motion failed. 
 
11. For Possible Action:  Matters Pertaining to Lease of Cottage 3 at ABC Park 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Finance Director Pelletier and included in the May 
12, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet 
  
G. Introduction of Bill No. 1874, an ordinance of the City of Boulder City approving 
Agreement No. 20-1876 between the City of Boulder City and Lend A Hand for 
rental of Cottage 3 at ABC Park, located at 801 Adams Boulevard 
 
Motion:  Introduce Bill No. 1874 and waive the reading except for the title, as follows: 
 
18
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 14 
 
"Bill No. 1874, an ordinance of the City of Boulder City approving Agreement No. 20-
1876 between the City of Boulder City and Lend A Hand for rental of Cottage 3 at ABC 
Park, located at 801 Adams Boulevard." 
 
Introduced by: Council Member Adams 
 
Bill No. 1874 will be considered at the May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting. 
 
12. For Possible Action:  Resolution No. 7098, a resolution of the City Council 
of Boulder City approving License Agreement No. 20-1881 between the 
City of Boulder City and the Boulder City Chamber of Commerce, to permit 
the use of office space at the LADWP Building, located at 600 Nevada 
Way. 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Finance Director Pelletier and included in the May 
12, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet 
 
Contracts/Real Estate Manager Armantrout provided an overview of the staff report.  
 
Council Member Hoskins pointed out numerous corrections to the proposed license 
agreement including the incorrect address throughout the document. She said Section 
1 could be interpreted that the Chamber is leasing the entire building rather than just a 
portion. She stated the square footage and a description of the area to be occupied by 
the Chamber should be included in the agreement. In addition, Section 2 was written for 
a 3-year occupancy and the option for a year-to-year after the initial three-year period 
whereas Emergency Aid was a month-to-month term, and Red Mountain Music 
Company had no term.  She said it would be challenging to determine utility payment if 
there is only one meter. She pointed out discrepancies in the utilities and the in-kind 
dollar amount between the proposed agreement with the Chamber and the agreements 
with Emergency Aid and Red Mountain Music Company. She expressed concern that 
the COVID-19 emergency may continue, and Emergency Aid may need more space. 
She said the City should protect the services Emergency Aid provides by ensuring 
ample space to operate. She said a three-year agreement was not temporary. She 
noted the receipt of several calls from concerned residents that Emergency Aid is being 
forced out of the building. She said she had no objections to the Chamber’s use of the 
building temporarily until it could find a better location. She added it is the fiduciary duty 
of the City Council to delay items until they are correct. She requested to receive the 
updated agreement two weeks prior for review and expressed concern the proposal was 
not brought before the Historic Preservation Committee. 
 
Council Member Bridges stated her concern was the proposal was not brought to the 
Historic Preservation Committee. She stated she was familiar with the building and did 
not believe it would infringe upon Emergency Aid.  
 
Council Member Adams stated he had spoken with Tom Tyler of Emergency Aid who 
was agreeable to share space with the Chamber. He stated the Chamber provides an 
important service during a time when businesses are struggling. He said it was his 
19
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 15 
 
preference the agreement term be one year rather than three years, and reevaluated at 
that time.  
 
In response to a question by Mayor McManus, City Attorney Morris provided an 
explanation between a lease agreement and a license agreement stating a license 
agreement is not exclusive use to a particular property, whereas a lease provides 
exclusive use to a particular property. He said a license agreement is usually for a 
shorter period with fewer property rights. 
 
Mayor McManus questioned if a 501c6 would meet the qualifications outlined in NRS 
268.053 with respect to leasing city-owned space for below value. He said there was a 
distinction between a 501c3 and a 501c6. He stated he would also want the agreement 
to identify the specific area being occupied. He stated a three-year term was not 
temporary. He stated he understood the pressure on businesses at this time, but felt the 
Chamber seemed to linger in places that were rent-free. He said he could not support 
approval of the agreement as written.  
 
City Attorney Morris stated he would do more research on the distinction between the 
different non-profits. He stated Emergency Aid and Red Mountain Music Company have 
license agreements for the building. 
 
Council Member Folda expressed disappointment in the current document stating it was 
not ready for approval. She stated there were written agreements with both Emergency 
Aid and Red Mountain Music Company. She expressed agreement with the other 
comments regarding the term of the agreement.  
 
No action was taken. 
 
13. For possible action: Resolution No. 7099, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder 
City, terminating Agreement No. 18-1807 between the City of Boulder City and 
Stantec Consulting Services, Inc. for the City Hall Customer Service 
Improvements, BC Project No. 18-1033-MC (as requested by Councilmember 
Hoskins) 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Public Works Director Littrell and included in the 
May 12, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet. 
 
Public Works Director Littrell provided an overview of the staff report. 
 
Council Member Hoskins provided her reasons for bringing the matter forward. She said 
although it was not staff’s recommendation to cancel the contract, she said it would be 
financially irresponsible to continue the contract. She said it was not financially possible 
to implement the suggested changes identified in the report. She stated she discovered 
many errors in the report. She said due to the pandemic, the City has suffered a 
tremendous financial loss, and now was the time to be fiscally conservative. 
 
Mayor McManus stated that he appreciated the item being brought forward. He said he 
did not see the purpose of the Stantec report. He said the project cost an enormous 
20
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 16 
 
amount of money and there were no technical evaluations completed on City buildings. 
He said the highest and best use of a building is subjective and was a decision to be 
made by the Council.  
 
Motion:  Approve Resolution No. 7099  
 
Moved by: Council Member Hoskins   Seconded by: Council Member Adams 
 
Vote:   
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard Adams, Council 
Member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Tracy Folda, Council Member Judith 
Hoskins (5) 
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
The motion was approved.  
 
14. For possible action:  City Council appointment to the Airport Advisory Committee 
A staff report had been submitted by City Clerk Krumm and included in the May 
12, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet. 
 
Mayor McManus noted during public comment, a person had suggested Simon 
Whitely be considered to serve on the Airport Advisory Committee. 
 
Mayor McManus's opened nominations and nominated Deborah Downs. 
 
City Clerk Krumm notified the Council the name submitted earlier under Public 
Comment had not submitted a Volunteer Data Sheet and had not been verified 
as a Boulder City resident. She stated applicants must be residents in order to 
serve on any City advisory committee.  In addition, since publication of the 
packet, Deborah Downs had withdrawn her name for consideration of 
appointment to the AAC.  
 
Council Member Bridges nominated Tony Anton Vera. 
 
Council Member Adams nominated John Bacon. 
 
Motion: Close the nominations. 
 
Moved by: Mayor McManus                       Second: Council Member Folda 
 
Vote:   
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard Adams, Council 
Member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Tracy Folda, Council Member Judith 
Hoskins (5) 
 
21
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 17 
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
Mayor McManus called for the vote; recorded as follows: 
 
Tony Vera: Mayor McManus, Council Woman Bridges. 
 
John Bacon: Council Member Folda, Adams, and Hoskins. 
 
Mayor McManus announced John Bacon had been appointed to the Airport 
Advisory Committee.  
 
A. Public Comments  
 
The following people submitted written comments which were read into the 
record (attached): 
 
Fred Voltz requested his comments be included verbatim. (attached) 
 
Simon Whitely stated he was told at various Airport Advisory Committee 
meetings that residency was not a requirement to serve on the AAC.  He stated 
clarification was needed.  He stated the requirements should be expanded to 
others interested in supporting the airport.  
 
Judy Dechaine stated the City Council does not receive accurate information 
from staff. She agreed with comments made by Mr. Voltz about cutting the 
budget. 
 
The following people had submitted written comments which were read into the 
record: 
 
Lora Smyth 
 
No further comments were offered, and the public comment period was closed. 
 
B. City Council's Report 
 
Council Member Adams thanked everyone for their work after a long day. 
 
Council Member Hoskins thanked everyone as well. 
 
Council Member Bridges echoed the sentiments of other Council Members. She 
stated she will attend the SNWA Board meeting Thursday. 
 
Council Member Folda stated that Clark County School District (CCSD) would 
continue to provide meals through June 30, 2020 at Andrew J Mitchell 
Elementary School, Monday through Friday, from 7:00 AM to 10:00 AM. She said 
22
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 regular City Council meeting 18 
 
breakfast and lunch would be provided.  She added the USDA will continue this 
service throughout the summer and that scheduling changes will be 
communicated through ParentLink.  
 
Council Member Bridges commented that Emergency Aid of Boulder City has a 
good supply of food.  She stated that there is no reason for anyone in the City to 
go hungry. She added that residents could also receive rent and utility help if 
qualified. 
 
Mayor McManus stated his appreciation to all non-profits in Boulder City. He 
noted the last few weeks had been the first opportunity to complete large scale 
COVID-19 testing. He encouraged residents to stay at home when possible and 
practice social distancing.  
 
There being no further business to come before the Council, Mayor McManus 
adjourned the meeting at 11:38 PM.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_______________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kiernan McManus, Mayor 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
___________________________ 
Lorene Krumm, City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 1 
 
 
 
CITY COUNCIL 
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES 
 
       COUNCIL CHAMBER, 401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NEVADA 89005 
 
Tuesday, May 19, 2020 – 9:00 AM 
 
 
CALL TO ORDER  
 
The special meeting of the Boulder City Council, County of Clark, State of Nevada, was 
called to order at 9:00 A.M., Tuesday, May 19, 2020, in the Council Chamber, City Hall, 
by Mayor McManus in due compliance with law, the Charter, and the Council’s Rules of 
Procedure. 
 
Council members present: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council member James Howard 
Adams, Council member Claudia Bridges (teleconference), Council member Tracy Folda, 
Council member Judith Hoskins (teleconference) (5)  
  
Absent:  None (0) 
 
Also present: City Manager Alfonso Noyola, City Clerk Lorene Krumm, Airport Manager 
Willy Williamson, Airport Director Marissa Adou  
 
(Staff was in City Hall in their respective offices streaming the meeting in order to comply 
with the Governor’s Emergency Directive.) 
 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Mayor McManus announced that the meeting was being conducted under Governor 
Sisolak’s Emergency Directive 006. He noted that since Public was not present in person, 
they were allowed to make public comment by telephone or email.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Mayor McManus opened the meeting up for Public Comments concerning Agenda Items 
and announced that the phone number to call in and make comments was (702) 589-
9629.  
 
Hunter Buetner commented that he owned a hangar at the airport for the past 25 years 
and did not feel it was right the City was trying to take it from him without paying him 
$30,000 which was the amount he paid for it.    
 
The following comments were submitted in writing and read into the minutes by City Clerk 
Lorene Krumm: 
 
68
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 2 
 
Jim Appleby  
Michael Baxter 
Steve Beyer  
Fred Breitling 
Curtis Campi 
Steve Cottrell  
Mark DuLaney 
John Gustafson 
R.J. Heapy 
Chad Hesterman 
Mark Leseberg 
Ben McFie 
David and Cristy Moore 
Rich Moynihan 
Brian Walker 
Kevin Ward  
Michael Wylie 
 
Written comments are attached. 
 
Mayor McManus closed the public comment.  
 
Mayor McManus announced that Agenda Items would be addressed in the following 
order: Item Number 3, 4, 2, 1, 5, and 6.  
 
Mayor McManus opened up Public Comment again due to previous phone issues.  
 
Joel Smith commented that he was a hangar owner and indicated he agreed with the 
previous statements.  He asked at a minimum, the City allow for a 90-day extension on 
the expiration date since hangar owners are unable to do anything at this time such as  
finding new spaces for their aircrafts due to COVID 19.  He suggested it be extended until 
2023 to allow Staff and Council more time to look at the issue. He added that he spoke 
with an outside contractor who felt they should be able to keep the lease.  
 
Bob Fahnstock pointed out these were historical times. He added that he felt the City had 
been misled in the past including when they took over the Fuel Farm. He stated he did 
not feel anything should be decided on until there was a balanced budget, so the Airport 
could be profitable and self-sustaining.  
 
Eldridge Johnson indicated he was a hangar owner. He suggested the City follow what is 
being done in Carson City and industry standards.  
 
Rob Martin shared he was a Boulder City resident, pilot, and attorney. He remarked the 
police were called on him last Saturday for trespassing and he would be filing a bar 
complaint against City Attorney Morris.  He shared further information about his encounter 
with the police. He stated that at minimum, the lease should be extended two years and 
Kurt Castanion should be rehired.  He recommended the City not be in the rental business 
and the Mayor’s choice to end the leases should be overridden.   
69
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 3 
 
 
Mike Hickey stated he was a professional aviator and hangar owner. He shared part of 
the reason he and his family moved to Boulder City was access to the airport and 
available hangar space for his antique airplanes. He noted continuing the land lease 
would provide continuity to the airport community.  
 
James Embro commented he was a Boulder City resident and hangar owner. He stated  
none of the decisions could be made without knowing the budget.  He implored Council 
to pay attention to the Community’s concerns and to know what the budget is and what 
funds are needed to sustain the airport. He recommended Council not take action until 
they can make an educated decision.  
 
Ted Wanigasekera shared that he was a 20-year resident and business owner.  He stated  
he was upset that the City wanted to take over the leases and hoped they would 
reconsider renewing the leases.  
 
Doug Mueller indicated he was also a long time Boulder City resident and hangar owner. 
He shared that in 2012, the Boulder City Airport Association (BCAA) wanted to renew all 
the hangar leases, but the City was concerned at the time because there were 13 different 
leases and they wanted to standardize the language.  He noted Mayor McManus was 
incorrect regarding the NUNNO negotiations and NUNNO did not want to manage 
hangars, but in order for them to build the hangars they had to manage them on the City’s 
behalf. He clarified that his biggest concern with the lease expiring during this time is it 
would be impossible for hangar tenants to pick up their stuff and leave since there are no 
contractors available. He stated the recommendation to extend the lease was the most 
prudent. He cautioned the grant assurances can be revoked if things are not done in a 
fair manner.  
 
Judy Dechaine said many of the comments previously made seemed very logical and 
suggested the City extend the leases. She noted the decision should be made with the 
best interest of all Boulder City residents in mind and not only the hangar owners.  
 
Matt Ragan stated that in the case of Boulder City’s golf courses, the method that has 
worked best is when the City leases the space and someone else manages it. He noted  
this technique keeps liabilities down and offers higher revenues for the City. He shared 
he did not feel the City should get into operating businesses such as golf courses and 
fuel farms and further explained why he felt that way. He added Council had concerns 
about subleasing. He noted they could simply add language to the contract and believed  
most would be happy to agree with that change.  
 
Scott Miller read his previously submitted letter to Council.  
 
Richard Carr remarked he was a hangar owner and agreed with the previous comments. 
He noted before he purchased his hangar, he was concerned about the lease so he talked 
to City employee Brok Armantrout who advised him the leases renewals were almost 
complete and that he had no need to be concerned. He added he never would have 
purchased the hangar had he known the ground leases may not be renewed. He added  
there were costs associated with maintaining the hangar, and felt it was best for the 
70
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 4 
 
individual hangar owners to take care of those costs rather than placing the burden on 
the taxpayers.  
 
Kurt Goodfellow thanked City Council and the Mayor for what they do. He commented he 
also felt that the City should continue with the leases, so the owners can continue to 
maintain them. He added that the Triple-net agreement which is being suggested was 
practiced in commercial real estate and did not make sense for an airport 
 
Mayor McManus called for any further public comments.   There being none, the Public 
Comment portion of the meeting was closed.  
 
SPECIAL AGENDA 
 
3. For Possible Action: Discussion and possible staff directive regarding the term 
expiration of Lease Agreement No. 89-85, Lease Agreement Boulder City 
Municipal Airport 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Airport Manager Willy Williamson and included in 
the May 19, 2020 City Council Agenda packet.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson shared some background on the Item and commented that 
they were at a critical point because they were approximately 45 days away from the 
lease expiration.  
 
Mayor McManus noted that this has been a big issue in the City for some time. He gave 
a brief history behind the lease arrangement between NUNNO Cooperation and the City 
to build hangars at the Airport. 
 
Mayor McManus expressed he had done a lot of research on the NUNNO leases and 
issues concerning these types of leases were common to airports across the Country. He 
pointed out these types of leases are beneficial to get an airport up and running but were 
not made to be a permanent solution and that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) 
discourages private ownership on the airfield. He noted that the airport was set up as an 
Enterprise fund and noted that the funds made by the airport could not be spent elsewhere 
in the City but if the Airport was not self-sufficient the tax payers would end up paying for 
it.  
 
Mayor McManus explained elements of the ground lease and noted that part of the 
conditions included that when the lease was up the hangars would become the City’s 
property and that they should be turned over to them in good condition. He added that it 
was also a poor assumption that they would immediately start evicting people once the 
lease was over. He stated that there was no question that Boulder City residents gave up 
value of land in exchange for the value of the hangars at a future date.  
 
Mayor McManus shared that at an Airport Advisor Committee (AAC) meeting in 2018 
there was a suggestion made that the current owners of the hangars form a cooperation 
and bring forward a new lease for the 28 hangars. He noted that he has never seen any 
effort by any of the owners to do that. He added that he hoped that they could come up 
71
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 5 
 
with a lease which would keep everyone in their hangars without the City giving up its 
assets.   
 
Council member Hoskins stated that she agreed with Mayor McManus. She clarified that 
they were talking about one lease and one person who had the right to 28 ground leases 
and rents them out for more money than he pays. She noted that this was economic 
discrimination and a violation of grant assurances. She also commented that the revision 
clause and Triple net were well known throughout the aviation industry.  
 
Council member Adams pointed out that this was complex issue and has received a great 
deal of commentary about it. He asked what sort of preparations the current hangar 
owners would need to make if the City exercised the revision clause and when those 
preparations would have to be made.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson indicated that they were not looking to remove any of the 
tenants, so no preparation would be needed other than new contracts formed and signed.  
 
Council member Adams inquired how the City determined reverting was in their best 
financial interest.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson explained revenues received and the costs of maintenance 
and insurance are evaluated, as well as comparisons with other airports within a 100-mile 
radius.  
 
Council member Adams asked what liability there was for the City if there were damage 
due to maintenance negligence or other types of disaster?  
 
Airport Manager Williamson indicated there were always liability concerns, so it was 
important the City maintain proper insurance coverage and that inspections and 
maintenance were performed regularly as a preventative measure.      
 
Council member Adams said according to the FAA, reversions clauses are 
recommended, but not mandated.  He said he recognized each airport is unique and its 
focus was to provide quality services and equality.  He asked if the City chose the option 
to not revert, could the agreement be amended to limit subleasing?    
 
 
Airport Manager Williamson confirmed the new land lease could prohibit subletting or limit 
subletting.    
 
Council member Adams pointed out the uncertainties associated with COVID-19 and 
questioned if this was the right decision at this time. He said COVID-19 had put many 
people in a challenging financial situation and expressed concern that the City may find 
themselves in a difficult situation if they end up with numerous empty hangars.   
 
Airport Manager Williamson recognized that the potential for empty hangars was real.  He 
shared his experience during the recession in Vancouver, Washington. He noted his 20-
year budget factored in hangar vacancy.  
  
72
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 6 
 
City Manager Noyola added whether the decision were reversion or amending the 
agreement, it would be fair for both parties.    
 
Council member Adams said he believed reversion was of benefit to the City, but was 
concerned with the economic uncertainty at this time and its affects.     
 
Council member Bridges acknowledged the concern this topic for members of the 
community. She asked if the City Council could extend the lease with individual hangar 
owners?  
 
City Manager Noyola said the lease of 28 spaces was between the City and NUNNO; 
they were not individual agreements.  He said the City Council could enter into 28 
individual leases, but it would not be the recommendation of staff.    
 
Mayor McManus pointed out that in the original agreement, there were no provisions 
beyond a 10-year extension which had already been exercised.  
 
Council member Bridges said reversion was part of the original and extended agreement, 
so there were no other conclusions about the expiration of the 30-year term.   She said it 
was unfortunate many of the hangar owners invested money in the hangars and had been 
told otherwise or misled to believe the leases would be extended.  She cautioned that 
buyers beware of what they are purchasing.  She said this was an uncomfortable situation 
because she had good friends who owned hangars.  
 
In response the Council member Folda, Airport Director Adou noted the only Request for 
Proposals advertised were for Fuel Farm not the Master Leaseholder.     
 
Council member Folda recognized their decision with this lease could set a precedence 
for the remaining leases upon expiration.  She pointed out she agreed the ground lease 
rates should be increased in order to keep the Airport self-sustaining and also agreed 
subleasing should not be allowed. She expressed concern there had been a lack of clear 
communication and uncertainty as to what direction the City was going. She pointed out 
that in March of 2019, AeroPlex did a study for the City concerning the reversion and 
suggested the City state their intentions 3-5 years prior to the lease expiration; it was 
unfortunate this was not done. She noted other Cities with similar leases had done a 
variety of things including extending leases, creating new leases, and reversion. She said 
she recommended they follow the plan and recommendations that were provided by 
AeroPlex.  
 
Council member Folda pointed out there was a holding over clause in Section 37 of the 
lease that would allow for a month-to-month extension. She suggested this could be used 
to provide additional time to incorporate some of AeroPlex’s suggestions and provide 
current hangar tenants time to make their own plans since they would be making a 
financial decision.  
 
Mayor McManus commented they have the ability to work with individual hangar owners. 
He noted the airport community is passionate and organized about what they do. He also 
recognized that even though things have not been clear, this was not an unknown 
73
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 7 
 
situation and they have known this day was coming. He noted continuing the leases on a 
month-to-month situation would not help the problem. He added there was also the 
potential for people to pay less for a hangar than what they are paying currently.   
 
 
In response to concerns expressed by Council member Bridges, City Manager Noyola 
said he believed most of the hangar sublease transactions were listed as a bill of sale 
and not a deed of trust.  
 
Mayor McManus pointed out that even though they purchased the hangar, they still paid 
a ground lease fee to someone and would have understood they did not own it outright.  
 
City Manager Noyola noted some of the hangar owners may have paid a lease fee up 
front rather than doing it month-to-month.  
 
Mayor McManus reiterated that if federal money was provided to the City, it was not 
intended to benefit private owners.  
 
City Manager Noyola clarified the current decision was that the contract expire and revert 
to the City.  He said staff only needed direction if the Council wanted something different 
to happen.  
 
Council member Hoskins said in a letter from the FAA dated April 16, 2020, it stated if the 
agreement included a reversion, it must comply with that term. She expressed this was a 
difficult decision. She asked that if they move forward with the reversion, that staff do as 
much as they can to assist the current hangar owners.   
 
Council member Folda recommended they follow the revisionary process steps that were 
previously laid out for them by the consultant. She suggested extending the lease until 
2023 to give the City three years to fulfill the steps and provide clear intent.  
 
Mayor McManus asked if the report from AeroPlex, which Council member Folda was 
referring to, was ever finalized and adopted by City Council?  
 
Ms. Adou clarified the AeroPlex document provided options for the City to consider. She 
clarified it had not been adopted by City Council.  
 
Mayor McManus stated he did not feel the Council was bound by recommendations that 
were never adopted as a policy of the City. He said he believed the best thing to do was 
let the lease expire and approve a new lease that provided better terms for the current 
occupants.  
 
Council member Folda expressed concern with the City only having 45 days to set up a 
plan that will most likely be used not only for these 28 hangars, but eventually all 140 
hangars at the airport. She clarified she does not disagree with changing the terms, but 
disagreed with the timing of it and the burden that will be placed on staff and renters.  
 
City Manager Noyola noted staff had been preparing for this for several years and had 
documents prepared if Council decided to move forward with the reversion. He clarified  
74
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 8 
 
they did not plan to have different lease agreements for every hangar, but would use a 
generic lease agreement for all 28 hangars and any future hangars that would revert back 
to the City. He noted Staff had done some level of inspection on the hangars every year.  
 
Mayor McManus asked if there was a policy made by Council in the last 2-4 years of how 
they would handle this agreement. 
 
City Manager Noyola responded that Council set a policy 30 years ago when they made 
this agreement, and the policy included the hangars revert to the City. He clarified he did 
not know of a more recent policy made by Council.  
 
Council member Folda stated the City paid for the AeroPlex study and questioned why  it 
never came before the Council for adoption.  She reiterated she felt most comfortable 
following the recommendations and believed they would benefit both sides.  
 
City Manager Noyola noted there may have been a lack of clear direction due to a year-
long lag in leadership at the Airport which began about a year and a half ago.  
 
In response to a question by Council member Bridges stated the option to create a new 
lease that would grant continuation of ownership to the current hangar owners was not 
an option being proposed. 
 
City Attorney Morris clarified once the contract expires, the hangars would revert and 
become property of the City. A new lease would then be for both the hangars and the 
ground. 
 
Mayor McManus stated City Council cannot justify giving away property of the City.    
 
City Attorney Morris agreed and stated the City should only give away property if there 
was some sort of compensation that was being received in return.  
 
Council member Adams pointed out it was a common theme even beyond the AeroPlex 
recommendations to give people 3-5 years notice.  He said the fact the City has not 
adopted anything earlier has put the hangar owners in a difficult situation. He asked if 
clause 37 would allow the current situation on a month-to-month lease.    
 
City Attorney Morris reviewed clause 37 and explained it would not be a renewal of the 
lease and the property would revert to the City, but it would allow the City to work with the 
current tenants until the terms of a new lease began.  He added this contract was the 
City’s policy and they have a new contract ready upon the lease expiration.    
 
Council member Adams recognized that was the City’s official policy, but noted that many 
of the tenants were more recently given the impression the City may do something 
differently. 
 
Mayor McManus stated from his experience, he never heard anyone from the City 
suggest the terms of the lease were changing.  He added the terms of the agreement 
were in writing.     
75
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 9 
 
 
Airport Manager Williamson added the hold over clauses were typically used for a short 
period of time to allow time to develop a new contract.    
 
Council member Bridges asked for further clarification on the hold over clause including 
who the lease would be with and if the holdover end date had to be agreed upon by both 
parties.  
 
City Attorney Morris explained under the current contract, the lease will expire and the 
City will become the owner of 28 hangars.  The terms of payment will continue with the 
individual tenants and the City, upon a mutually agreed term, would continue on a month- 
to-month basis.  He added the alternative to a holdover would be eviction.  
 
Council member Folda expressed she would like more than 45 days for everyone 
involved.     
 
Motion: To proceed under terms of lease which entails reversion of the property.   
 
Moved by: Mayor McManus 
Seconded by: Council member Hoskins 
 
Vote: 
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, and Council member Judith Hoskins (2)  
 
NAY: Council member Tracy Folda, Council member James Howard Adams, and Council 
member Claudia Bridges, (3) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
Abstain: None (0) 
 
The motion failed.  
 
Council member Folda indicated she would like to make a new motion, but needed legal 
guidance. 
 
City Attorney Morris clarified what was before them was to either honor the terms of the 
agreement or to alter the terms of the agreement.  
 
Council member Folda asked if the holdover clause would expire with the lease on July 
2, 2020. 
 
City Attorney Morris explained that the language of the holdover clause allowed the lease 
to expire with the option to approve month-to-month leases between the City and the 
tenants.  
 
76
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 10 
 
City Manager Noyola added the holdover provision could also be used if a new agreement 
is approved and the tenant did not agree, it allowed extra time to gather personal property 
and move out of the hangar.  
 
Motion: Hold the Item in abeyance until Item No. 4 is discussed 
 
Moved by: Council member Adams 
Seconded by:  Council member Bridges 
 
Vote: 
 
Council member Folda indicated she would like clarification on what will happen to current 
tenants if nothing new was put in place.  
 
Council member Hoskins stated Council member Folda’s question concerned the 
sublessees and not the actual lease holder with the City.  
 
AYE: Council member Tracy Folda, Council member James Howard Adams, and Council 
member Claudia Bridges (3)  
 
NAY: Mayor Kiernan McManus and Council member Judith Hoskins (2) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
Abstain: None (0) 
 
The motion was approved.  
 
Mayor McManus called for a 15 minute recess.  
 
Mayor McManus called the meeting back to order at 1:25 p.m.  
 
Council returned to discuss Item No. 3 at 2:42 p.m.  
 
Council member Folda asked if the appraisals would be completed by July 2, 2020?  
 
City Manager Noyola replied it was the intent of staff to have everything ready to go prior 
to July 2, 2020 in order to allow time for review and signatures of the tenants beforehand.  
 
Council member Folda expressed her opinion that she would have liked more notice and 
clarity of the plans. She said she felt this was being rushed.   
 
Mayor McManus clarified the Council wanted to be sure the current tenants at the airport 
knew that they were encouraged to continue and enjoy the airport, but the current lease 
was coming to an end and it needed to be addressed.     
 
Mayor McManus asked each member of Council individually if they wanted to make a 
motion to change the terms of the lease and each member indicated they did not.  
 
77
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 11 
 
4. For Possible Action: Discussion and possible staff directive regarding matters 
pertaining to hangar lease options:  
 
a. Triple-Net Hangar Lease 
b. Regular Hangar Lease 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Airport Manager Willy Williamson and included in 
the May 19, 2020 City Council Agenda packet.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson provided an overview of the Item and explained there were 
two options.  He said there was a regular rent agreement and a triple-net rental agreement 
and explained the differences between the two. He noted the agreements were all month- 
to-month leases. He noted he did not feel the triple-net option was the best agreement 
for the City, but wanted Council to know it was an option. 
 
Mayor McManus asked for further clarification on a triple-net agreement.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson clarified that under a triple-net agreement, the tenant would 
take care of the maintenance costs, taxation, insurance, and utilities. He noted by being 
responsible for those items, they were offered a  reduced overall rent. He noted the overall 
reduction in rent was typically between 20-30%.  
 
Council member Adams noted some of the hangars had different amenities and asked if 
the City planned to give all the hangars the same amenities or would the hangars remain 
as is?    
 
Airport Manager Williamson said for now, the hangars would remain as is.  He explained 
the rental agreements were designed to be standardized and while the amount was  
based on the square footage, the City could factor in amenities to ensure the rates were 
fair.    
 
Council member Adams asked if they had the capacity to manage renting, leasing, and 
maintenance in-house or would they need to hire a third party?   He asked what the 
upfront costs would be?  
 
Airport Manager Williamson explained the first year would include overhead costs due to 
the transition. He shared that after the first year, the upfront costs included the annual 
inspections which would be contracted out for about $1000 per hangar. He noted they 
could handle new rental agreements in house. He clarified that he also did not anticipate 
a need for any additional staff to handle these responsibilities.  
 
City Manager Noyola stated the Public Works Director said the Public Works Department  
could take care of most, if not all, of the current needs. 
 
Council member Folda asked about the Airport Manager’s experience working with 
hangar lease owners?    
 
78
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 12 
 
Airport Manager Williamson indicated there had been problems because hangars were 
used as storage for  non-aviation related items because it was often cheaper per square 
foot than the rates for a storage facility.  He added some people had been late making 
their payments, but from his experience, it wasn’t often an issue and could quickly be 
resolved.     
 
Council member Folda said it would be beneficial to the City if Public Works staff did not 
take on extra duties at the airport.     
 
Airport Manager Williamson said during his busiest year at a different airport, he was 
responsible for 28 rental agreements which equated to approximately 56 hours of his time 
for the entire year.  
 
Council member Folda asked why the NUNNO agreement included language about not 
allowing vehicles to be stored in the hangars, but the new agreements did not.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson explained that language was not included because it is 
preferred that a tenant park their vehicle in the hangar when they are flying their plane.    
He said it was too difficult to include every scenario about what was allowed versus what 
was not allowed to be stored in the hangar.      
 
In response to Council member Folda, Airport Manager Williamson clarified that an 
access card allowed a person to drive a vehicle onto the airport or to access the 
pedestrian gate.  He said the proposed document clarified who could be granted an 
access card.    
 
Council member Folda suggested staff do its best to not increase their work load and not 
increase City liability. She asked what the fees were to hire a third-party property 
manager?  
 
Airport Manager Williamson replied that property management companies typically 
charge between 4-6% of the gross revenues.  
 
Council member Bridges asked if there was a way to acknowledge the value the current 
tenants have invested?    
 
City Manager Noyola replied they would be creating inequality by doing that since the 
hangar would be City’s property at that point and not the current tenants.  
 
Council member Hoskins said she was pleased disallowing subleases had been  
addressed. She asked that something be included to give the current residents priority to 
lease the hangars they are currently occupying.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson stated that often times, the improvements made to hangars 
were not attached to the building and would not require a permit. He added a waiting list 
with all the current tenants’ names on it was attached to the individual hangar.  
 
79
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 13 
 
Mayor McManus said grant money and grant assurances can be negatively effective if 
they do not charge everyone the same way for the hangars.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson agreed and added that the FAA wanted to be sure everyone 
one was being treated the same which is why they have to standardize the lease 
agreements.  
 
Mayor McManus asked if Airport Manager Williamson had contacted all the current 
tenants about continuing a lease with the City.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson indicated he sent out an email to all hangar tenants, but has 
not spoken to all of them in person.  He noted of the contact information has been 
updated.    
 
Mayor McManus announced that Council member Bridges had left the Council Chambers 
physically, but was still attending the meeting via telephone.  
 
Mayor McManus said the triple-net lease option could be of benefit because it would allow 
for a reduction for tenants overall rent costs and would allow them to keep the hangar in 
the condition they feel is most advantageous to them.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson noted if the Council approved a triple-net agreement it would 
be consistent across the board. He added most of the improvements at the hangars have 
been minor and would not be problematic if a regular rental agreement were approved.  
 
City Manager Noyola said if the Council preferred the triple-net option, the City would 
seek a third-party opinion to determine annual maintenance and utility costs so rent  could 
be calculated properly.  He said he believed there were other factors that could be 
compounded if a triple-net option were chosen.  
 
Mayor McManus said both lease options provided the City an option to terminate the 
leases with a 30-day notice with or without cause as long as it was not for an unlawful 
reason.  
 
Council member Adams shared that many of the comments he had received expressed 
concern with the City maintaining the hangars, but did not want the triple-net option which 
would provide individual tenants be in charge of their maintenance.   
 
Airport Manager Williamson commented that he believed the difference between the 
triple- net option and regular option would be less than $100 and the City would still be 
required to perform annual inspections.  
 
Council member Adams asked if there was a way to reimburse tenants for big costs such 
as replacing hangar doors.  
 
City Manager Noyola said that would simply be a risk the tenants would have to be willing 
to take upon entering into a triple-net lease.  
 
80
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 14 
 
Airport Manager Williamson cautioned that he believed fewer people would want to enter 
into a triple-net lease.  
 
Council member Folda clarified the current hangar tenants would be given priority to enter 
into a new lease with the City.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson confirmed she was correct and noted they would not want to 
displace any of the current tenants.  
 
Council member Folda asked if the lease term could be longer than month-to-month to  
create more stability? 
 
Airport Manager Williamson replied that they would need a good reason to evict someone, 
so there is not much of a threat of eviction with the month to month leases, but it gives 
the renter more options to leave or switch hangars.   
 
Council member Folda stated the agreements were a good start, but she still had some 
concerns. She pointed out there were areas she believed were not sufficient and could 
potentially cause legal issues.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson stated the agreement was a draft version and stated she 
could provide her recommendations.      
 
City Manager Noyola shared the matter before them  was to accept one of the agreements 
presented so if there were substantial changes, it should not move forward at this time.    
 
City Attorney Morris stated the agreements that were provided had been approved as to 
form and content.  
 
Council member Folda express she still had concerns with lack of clarification about who 
was responsible for paying utilities and what the City was required to repair and upkeep. 
She indicated she would also like to see the lease term increased to one-year.  
 
Council member Adams asked what type of leniency the City had for determining the 
rates of the lease.  
 
City Attorney Morris responded that the NRS did not require an appraisal under these 
circumstances, but the City would be bound to not go below the appraised market value 
if one had been obtained.  He noted Staff recommended obtaining an appraisal.  
 
Motion: To direct Staff to proceed with the regular hangar lease.  
 
Moved by: Council member Adams 
Seconded by: Council member Adams 
 
Vote: 
 
81
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 15 
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council member Tracy Folda, Council member James 
Howard Adams, Council member Claudia Bridges, and Council member Judith Hoskins 
(5)  
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
Abstain: None (0) 
 
The motion was approved.  
 
2. For Possible Action: Resolution No. 7100, a resolution of the City Council of 
Boulder City authorizing City Staff to seek appraisals of general aviation hangar 
facilities at the Boulder City Municipal Airport 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Finance Director Diane Pelletier and included in the 
May 19, 2020 City Council Agenda packet.  
 
Contracts/Real Estate Manager Brok Armantrout provided a brief introduction of the 
request to seek an appraisal of the fair market value for hangars located at the airport.   
He noted the City knew an appraiser who was available and would be willing to proceed 
at an expedited rate if the Council authorized the appraisal.    
 
Council member Adams stated he felt this was the appropriate steps for Staff to take if 
they planned to lease the hangars after they revert.  
 
Council member Folda asked if the appraisal would be applicable to future hangar 
reversions or was it exclusive to the current 28 hangars?  
 
Contracts/Real Estate Manager Armantrout said under State law, appraisals are valid for 
one year and the next set of hangars were not set to expire for three years.  He said it 
would be in their best interest to seek new appraisals at that time. He also noted the 
evaluation was based upon square footage.    
 
Council member Bridges asked if the appraiser would be taking into consideration the 
current economic situation.  
 
Contracts/Real Estate Manager Armantrout indicated he would expect the appraiser to 
follow any requirements of State law.  
 
Motion: To approve Resolution 7100 authorizing City Staff to seek appraisals 
 
Moved by: Mayor McManus 
Seconded by: Council member Adams  
 
Vote: 
 
82
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 16 
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council member Tracy Folda, Council member James 
Howard Adams, Council member Claudia Bridges, and Council member Judith Hoskins 
(5)  
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
Abstain: None (0) 
 
The motion was approved.  
 
1. For Possible Action: Discussion about the Airport Advisory Committee 
recommendation to form a working group relative to the Boulder City Municipal 
Airport Aviation Fuel Dispensing, Handling, and Storage Standards and possible 
staff directive 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Airport Manager Willy Williamson and included in 
the May 19, 2020 City Council Agenda packet.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson introduced the Item and included a brief history. He shared  
the Airport Advisory Committee’s (ACC) recommendation was to convene a working 
group to review the proposed standards.  
 
Council member Adams asked if the group would have to follow the open meeting laws if 
it was formed by Staff under the direction of City Council.  
 
City Manager Noyola responded if City Council appointed a Committee, it must abide by 
open meeting laws. He stated if it were a City Manager appointed a Committee, they 
would not have to meet those same requirements.  
 
Council member Adams commented he was not sure this was the best or most productive 
way to go about things at this time.   
 
Council member Bridges stated she was not keen on forming another group and felt it 
may be redundant. 
 
Council member Hoskins shared that she feels the Airport Manager and AAC were 
qualified to handle this on their own.  
 
Council member Folda pointed out a request for a working group may have been 
suggested to get the opinion of more day-to-day users. 
 
Mayor McManus indicated he was disappointed with the discussion at the AAC meeting 
regarding the fuel standards and that no other recommendations were offered.  He 
clarified he could not support the formation of an additional Committee, but asked that if 
any other recommendations were made to Airport Manager Williamson, they may be 
considered.  
83
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 17 
 
 
Airport Manager Williamson remarked that he had spoken with some of the Fixed Base 
Operators (FBO) at the airport who provided recommendations which have been 
incorporated. He noted the changes were awaiting legal review and would be brought 
back to the City Council for its consideration.  
 
Mayor McManus asked each member of Council if they wanted to make a motion in 
support of the recommendation from the AAC.  No members of Council wished to make 
a motion.  
 
5. Discussion on status update on the sky diving drop zone access agreement 
amendment to extend the term and access fee for Agreement No. 15-1554 
between the City of Boulder City and SkyDiveLasVegas.com (as requested by 
Mayor McManus) 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Finance Director Diane Pelletier and included in the 
May 19, 2020 City Council Agenda packet.  
 
Contracts/Real Estate Manager Armantrout presented an overview of the Item and noted 
the previous agreement expired last June and that a new agreement was prepared by 
Staff and provided in February to business owner Brent Buckner and his attorney.  He 
said staff was waiting for a response.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson explained he had done comparisons on the costs at other 
airports and arrived at his suggested rate of 13 cents per square foot.   
 
In response to Mayor McManus, Airport Manager Williamson said the City did not have a 
minimum area requirement. He indicated the Mesquite and Cottonwood landing pads 
were both adjacent to the airport and on airport property.   
 
Council member Hoskins pointed out that it was difficult to make a comparison. She 
suggested they freeze the rate until after they get through the COVID-19 situation they 
are in right now.  
 
Mayor McManus pointed out the business owner also had the option to reduce their costs 
to the City by reducing the amount of land they wished to access. He acknowledges that 
it was a difficult time, but that it was up to the owner to decide.  
 
Council member Folda asked how they went from a lease agreement with exclusive rights 
to the property in 2001 for $3,262 per year to now an access agreement for $3,000 per 
month.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson noted the property has grown 18 times larger since the 
beginning of the lease.  He said while they do not have an exclusive lease, they are 
prohibited from putting anything else on it because it would create a hazard for the sky 
divers.  
 
84
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 18 
 
Ms. Adou explained it was an access agreement and not a lease agreement because 
they would be required to provide access to another skydiving company if requested.     
 
Council member Folda expressed she felt the cost should be lowered since it is non-
exclusive.  
 
Airport Manager Williamson pointed out that the cost was 14 cents per square foot in 
2001 and now they were suggesting 13 cents per square foot.  She said it had actually 
gone down in price over the past 20 years.  
 
Mayor McManus stated that he agreed with Council member Folda that having access to 
property was far different than having exclusive use of something. He also suggested that 
the business owner may need to consider the amount of area they want to access.  
 
6. Public Comments  
 
Mayor McManus opened up the final public comment period and noted that comments at 
this time could be made on any issue.  
 
Brian Whitaker thanked the Mayor and City Council. He indicated that he was speaking 
on behalf of Sky Dive Las Vegas and Bret Buckner who had to leave the meeting earlier.  
He shared that in 2012-2013 the appraisal done on the land set the value at 11 cents per 
square foot. He said they have been concerned the fee continues to increase. He 
explained they needed a large area to ensure there was nothing in the way of the landing 
zone to ensure the safety of the skydivers.  He noted in 2012, the FAA did an inspection 
and found their operation to be incredibly successful and a good example for other 
airports to follow. He noted they were not a typical aeronautical use and were therefore 
not subject to the same market evaluations for property. He shared they were also 
concerned with the 90-day termination provision.  
 
Rich Moynihan commented  he was disappointed with the outcome of Item 3. He felt that 
the Mayor had made his decision prior to the meeting, and that he did not agree the 
hangar owners were getting something from the City for nothing. He clarified the current 
ground leaseholders had paid for both their leases and the hangars. He suggested the 
City should  have done a new lease to require the current master leaseholder transfer the 
lease to the hangar leaseowners. He added the Airport had put out a proposal for lease 
extensions in August 2019, and several proposals were submitted even thought it was 
stated otherwise. He thanked them for the time they put into the issue despite the lack of 
good results.  
 
Cami Perkins stated she was an attorney with Howard and Howard and represented 
several hangar owners. She claimed that the City Attorney’s comment that they could not 
enter into new ground leases was blatantly false. She noted the City had also not run a 
financial analysis of the City taking over the hangar leases. She stated entering into new 
ground leases with the current subtenants would be mutually beneficial. She added other 
legal advice given to Council during the meeting was not correct. She also noted she had 
informed the City Attorney that hangar owners were willing to pay market rate or above 
along with a reversion deferral fee, but that was not communicated to Council. She added 
85
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 19 
 
they also could have extended the NUNNO lease for 60 to 90 days while they worked out 
the particulars of a new ground lease. She clarified that leases were amended all the 
time, and the impression given was that because the lease was ending, they did not have 
a choice but to let the leases expire was incorrect. She urged the Council to reconsider 
the decisions made today, and put the Item back on the agenda.  
 
Matt Ragan commented he was surprised by the lack of understanding when they 
discussed reversion. He also noted that he was a member of the AAC and found it 
offensive that it was stated  they did not take this seriously and were only complaining. 
He explained that they had meetings with the airport users and fuel distributors and not 
one of them had been contacted by the Airport Manager.  He wanted to encourage 
discussion with the users before rules were changed.  
 
The following comments were previously submitted and read into the minutes by City 
Clerk Lorene Krumm: 
 
JB Smith 
Julie Morris  
Chris Morris  
 
Mayor McManus called for any further comments and restated the phone number for 
public comments.  
 
Christy Moore commented that an easy fix to the existing lease with Rob Martin would be 
to terminate the existing lease right now and offer the 28 hangar owners a month-to-
month lease until 2023 that allows them continued hangar ownership. She added there 
were at least two past proposed leases given to the Airport Manager or his office which 
were never considered.  She stated a Las Vegas Airport encouraged subleasing and 
noted how it was done.   
 
Mark DuLaney expressed he was disappointed with their decisions and stated he felt 
much of the information brought to Council was inaccurate. He suggested that it would 
be appropriate to make a resolution for a new ground lease for a period of five years that 
would automatically renew unless the City decided three years prior to expiration that it 
wanted to revert the hangars. He added that he would like to see them revisit this issue.  
 
Mayor McManus called for any additional public comments. No further comments were 
offered, and the public comment was closed.  
 
Mayor McManus adjourned the meeting at 4:00 p.m.  
 
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
86
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 19, 2020 Special City Council meeting 20 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Kiernan McManus, Mayor     
 
 
 
____________________________       
Lorene Krumm, City Clerk 
  
 
 
 
 
 
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting 1 
 
    
 
CITY COUNCIL 
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES 
 
       COUNCIL CHAMBER, 401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NEVADA 89005 
 
Tuesday, May 26, 2020 – 7:00 PM 
 
 
CALL TO ORDER  
 
The regular meeting of the Boulder City Council, County of Clark, State of Nevada, was 
called to order at 7:00 P.M., Tuesday, May 26, 2020, in the Council Chamber, City Hall, 
by Mayor McManus in due compliance with law, the Charter, and the Council’s Rules of 
Procedure. 
 
Council members present: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard 
Adams, Council Member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Tracy Folda, Council Member 
Judith Hoskins (teleconference) (5)  
  
Absent:  None (0) 
 
Also present: City Manager Alfonso Noyola, City Clerk Lorene Krumm, City Attorney 
Steve Morris 
 
(Staff was in City Hall in their respective offices streaming the meeting in order to comply 
with the Governor’s Emergency Directive) 
 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Fred Voltz asked that his comments be entered into the record verbatim. (attached) 
 
Mayor McManus called for a recess due to technical difficulties; the livestream was lost. 
 
Mayor McManus resumed the meeting.  He continued to offer public comment. 
 
The following submitted written comments which were read into the record (attached): 
 
Georgia Wenzel 
 
No further comments were offered, and Mayor McManus closed public comment. 
 
In response to a question by Mayor McManus, City Attorney Steve Morris stated as long 
as the link provided on the agenda leads to the live feed, there was no concern.  
 
141
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting 2 
 
IT Support Technician Ben Jurek stated the City had to reroute the link to use a different 
platform for the livestream; however, the URL address that was posted on the agenda 
was the same.  He confirmed the video was being broadcast and was embedded in the 
same location. He asked for a short recess to correct the mirror images.  
 
Mayor McManus called for another recess noting the meeting would reconvene at 8 p.m. 
 
Mayor McManus reconvened the meeting again.   
 
In response to a question by Mayor McManus, City Attorney Morris stated it was his 
opinion the meeting could proceed. 
 
FOR POSSIBLE ACTION: APPROVAL OF REGULAR AGENDA 
 
Motion: Remove Item Nos. 5 and 6 and approve the Regular Agenda, as amended. 
 
Moved by:  Council member Bridges 
Seconded by: Council member Folda 
 
Vote: 
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard Adams, Council 
member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Tracy Folda, Council Member Judith Hoskins 
(5) 
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
The motion was approved.  
 
FOR POSSIBLE ACTION: APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA 
 
Motion: Move Item No. 2B and Item No. 4 to the Regular Agenda and approve the 
Consent Agenda, as amended. 
 
Moved by: Mayor McManus 
Seconded by: Council member Bridges 
 
Vote: 
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard Adams, Council 
Member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Tracy Folda, Council Member Judith Hoskins 
(5) 
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
The motion was approved.  
142
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting 3 
 
 
CONSENT AGENDA 
 
1. For possible action:  Resolution No. 7102, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder 
City, approving Interlocal Agreement No. 20-1882 between the City of Boulder City 
and Clark County for continued participation in an Urban County Consortium for 
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds for federal FY 2021-22, 2022-
23, and 2023-24 
 
A staff report had been submitted by City Planner Danielewicz and included in the May 
26, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet.  
 
2. For possible action: Matters regarding Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) 
funds for FY 2019-20, pertaining to previously approved applications: 
 
A. Resolution No. 7103, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, Nevada 
approving Supplemental Interlocal Agreement No. 20-1883 between the City of 
Boulder City and Clark County and amending both revenues and expenditures for 
the FY 2019-20 budget 
 
B. Resolution No. 7104, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, Nevada 
approving Agreement No. 20-1884 between the City of Boulder City and 
Emergency Aid of Boulder City, Inc. 
 
This item was moved to the Regular Agenda. 
 
C. Resolution No. 7105, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, Nevada 
approving Agreement No. 20-1885 between the City of Boulder City and Lend A 
Hand of Boulder City 
 
A staff report had been submitted by City Planner Danielewicz and included in the May 
26, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet. 
 
3. For possible action:  Resolution No. 7106, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder 
City approving an amendment to Agreement No. 16-1586 between the City of Boulder 
City, Nevada and VC3, Inc. to provide Network Server Maintenance and Hosted 
Desktop Solution for City Network Infrastructure  
 
A staff report had been submitted by Administrative Services Director Boldt and included 
in the May 26, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet. 
 
4. For possible action: Resolution No. 7107, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder 
City, approving Agreement No. 20-1886 between the City of Boulder City and Western 
Area Power Administration to provide project administration and proceed with the 
design and commissioning work associated with making improvements at the Boulder 
City Tap 
143
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting 4 
 
 
This item was moved to the Regular Agenda. 
 
REGULAR AGENDA 
2. For possible action: Matters regarding Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) 
funds for FY 2019-20, pertaining to previously approved applications: 
B. Resolution No. 7104, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, Nevada 
approving Agreement No. 20-1884 between the City of Boulder City and 
Emergency Aid of Boulder City, Inc. 
 
Community Development Director Mays provided a brief overview of the staff report. 
Council member Bridges disclosed she was the grant writer for Emergency Aid and would 
abstain from deliberating and voting on the matter.  
Motion: Approve Resolution No. 7104 
 
Moved by: Council member Folda 
Seconded by: Council member Hoskins 
 
Vote: 
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard Adams, Council 
Member Tracy Folda, Council Member Judith Hoskins (4) 
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
Abstain:  Council member Bridges (1) 
 
The motion was approved.  
 
4. For possible action: Resolution No. 7107, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder 
City, approving Agreement No. 20-1886 between the City of Boulder City and Western 
Area Power Administration to provide project administration and proceed with the 
design and commissioning work associated with making improvements at the Boulder 
City Tap 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Public Works Director Littrell and included in the 
May 26, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet. 
 
Public Works Director Littrell provided an overview of the staff report. 
Mayor McManus stated he had asked the item be moved to the Regular Agenda.   
 
144
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting 5 
 
In response to questions by Mayor McManus, Public Works Director Littrell stated 
Western Area Power Administration (WAPA) is the power source the City ties into and it 
manages the City’s power.  He noted the BC Tap project is very essential to the City as 
it provides redundancy and improved reliability. He provided a review of the work done 
prior to the transformer being switched over in approximately one month. 
 
Mayor McManus stated he wanted to discuss this matter under the Regular Agenda to 
make the public aware.  
 
In response to a question by Council member Adams, Public Works Director Littrell stated 
the testing and the switchover have been performed. He said the transformer has been 
wired and tested.  He said he had no concerns entering into the summer months.  
 
Motion: Approve Resolution No. 7107 
 
Moved by: Mayor McManus 
Seconded by: Council member Bridges 
 
Vote: 
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard Adams, Council 
Member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Tracy Folda, Council Member Judith Hoskins 
(5) 
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
The motion was approved.  
 
5. Introduction of Bill No. 1875, an ordinance of the City of Boulder City, Nevada, to 
amend Title 7, Chapter 1, of the City Code General Offenses, by adding a new 
Sectio21; Urinating/Defecating in Public Prohibited 
 
This item had been removed from the agenda. 
 
6. Introduction of Bill No. 1876, an ordinance of the City of Boulder City, Nevada to 
delete Title 7, Chapter 1, Section 8, of the City Code, Indecent, Obscene 
Language, for the purpose of removing an outdated and unconstitutional section 
of the Code.” 
 
This item had been removed from the agenda. 
 
7. Introduction of Bill No. 1877, an Ordinance of the City of Boulder City, Nevada to 
amend Title 1, Chapter 9 of the City Code - Financial Administration – by 
145
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting 6 
 
amending section 1-9-9 to update General Fund unassigned fund balance and 
the minimum operating reserves in other operating funds of the City 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Finance Director Pelletier and included in the May 
26, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet. 
 
Motion: Introduce Bill No. 1877 and waive the reading except for the title, as follows: 
 
“Bill No. 1877, an Ordinance of the City of Boulder City, Nevada to amend Title 1, Chapter 
9 of the City Code - Financial Administration – by amending section 1-9-9 to update 
General Fund unassigned fund balance and the minimum operating reserves in other 
operating funds of the City.”  
 
Introduced by:  Council member Hoskins 
 
Bill No. 1871 will be considered at the June 9, 2020 regular City Council meeting. 
 
8. For Possible Action: Matters pertaining to FY2020-2021 Tentative and Final 
Budget: 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Finance Director Diane Pelletier and included in 
the May 26, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet. 
 
Finance Director Pelletier provided a PowerPoint presentation regarding the FY2021 
final budget. She reviewed the steps taken during the entire budget process including 
the workshops and public meetings held.  She discussed the City’s response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic for the current fiscal year, and the policies implemented to mitigate 
the General Fund revenue loss for FY2021.  
 
City Manager Noyola reviewed the policies instituted to mitigate the General Fund 
revenue loss including halting all travel and training, all vacant position funding had 
been removed, and review and prioritization of overtime expenses.  He noted the 
General Fund department budgets were reduced by $2.3M.  He noted $804,000 was 
moved to contingency.  He stated in addition, all City-funded capital projects were on 
hold until at least January 2021.  He said at that time, City Council will receive the mid-
year budget review and will have a better picture of the negative impact of COVID-19. 
 
Administrative Services Officer Boldt provided a review of Personnel stating 1.8 FTE’s 
were added for the FY21 budget year.  He noted there was a general salary increase of 
3% for all employees. He said Deputy Fire Chief was the only open funded position. 
 
Budget Manager Angela Manninen discussed the General Fund increases and 
decreases since April 22, 2020. She said the transfers out to the five newly established 
funds totaled $8,031,601.  She said operating and maintenance expense decreased 
from $35.1M to $32.8M.  She reviewed the changes to the Proprietary Funds. 
 
146
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting 7 
 
CIP Coordinator Carol Lelles provided an overview of the changes to the Capital 
Improvement Plan since the meeting on March 11, 2020. 
 
A. Public Hearing on the FY 2020-2021 Tentative Budget (Notice published May 16, 
2020 – Las Vegas Review Journal) 
 
Mayor McManus opened the public hearing. 
 
Fred Voltz stated the City Hall project had not been removed; it was moved to a future 
year and still showed on the plan.  He said the proposed cuts were insufficient.  He said 
there was no discussion regarding cuts to staff compensation such as colas, salaries, and 
benefits.    
 
No further comments were offered and the public hearing was declared closed. 
 
Council member Hoskins stated health and safety issues should be budget priorities and 
take precedent over golf course and park improvements.   
 
In response to questions by Council member Folda, Finance Director Pelletier stated the 
40% anticipated decrease in C-tax revenues from Applied Analysis was not as bad as 
initially projected.  She confirmed the estimated economic recovery period from the 
COVID-19 pandemic was 18 months.  She said it was very possible budget cuts would 
be made into the next fiscal year as well.   
 
In response to a question by Council member Folda, City Manager Noyola explained how 
the money in the special revenue funds would be used if needed, and how the use of the 
money is authorized.  He noted the Council approved to close the gap of potential revenue 
losses by the use of Ending Fund Balance.   
 
In response to a question by Council member Folda, City Manager Noyola stated the 
Council approved the creation of the funds for very specific purposes.  He said if needed, 
the Council may need to approve the use of the Revenue Stabilization Fund if the 
revenues continue to decline more than anticipated. 
 
Council member Folda noted most of the expenses in the General Fund was staff salary 
and benefits; very little could be reduced.  She confirmed with City Manager Noyola all 
capital improvement projects funded by the City were currently on hold until January 2021 
and would be reassessed by the Council.  
 
Council member Bridges congratulated the Finance Department. She said they deserve 
a tremendous amount of credit for all of the work that was done.  She also thanked the 
Finance Department for the information provided at her briefing. She said she was in favor 
of putting the capital projects on hold until January 2021 until it was determined how the 
budget would be impacted.  
 
In response to a statement by Council member Bridges, Finance Director Pelletier stated 
the special revenue funds are specific to assist the City to be able to run smoothly.  She 
said it was inevitable costs would incur which would affect the funds.  She said the special 
funds do have caps; they will not grow indefinitely and are not capped out at this time.   
 
Council member Adams also thanked the Finance Department.   
 
147
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting 8 
 
In response to a question by Council member Adams, Finance Director Pelletier stated 
the City has always had a contingency fund, but it had a minimal amount of money. She 
said it was inevitable something would happen which will require the City to use the 
contingency fund.  She provided an explanation as to how the contingency fund would be 
used, and why it was funded at the increased amount. 
 
In response to a question by Council member Adams, City Manager Noyola stated the 
next cuts, if necessary, would be salaries and benefits, which represents 60% of the 
General Fund.  
 
In response to a question by Council member Hoskins regarding the increased printing 
costs in all departments, Budget Manager Manninen stated the City had not been 
budgeting enough for printing costs.  She noted the City has a contract with Ray Morgan 
and was now able to track costs better by identifying the use from each department. 
 
In response to a question by Mayor McManus, Budget Manager Manninen stated C-tax 
makes up 22% of the City’s revenue.  She said the budget already reflects anticipated 
decreases in revenues.  She said the City was not expecting decreases from solar leases.   
 
In response to questions by Mayor McManus, Administrative Services Officer Boldt stated 
represented employees are approximately 90% of the workforce. He said the City has the 
authority to suspend the contracts under a State of Emergency, but when the State of 
Emergency ends, the contract goes back into effect immediately. He said appointed 
employees have contracts, and others are covered under previous resolutions when the 
labor contracts were negotiated and approved. 
 
Mayor McManus stated he hoped the City would not have to cut positions. 
 
In response to questions by Mayor McManus, City Manager Noyola stated most 
employees were covered under collective bargaining agreements.  He said in order to cut 
positions, a fiscal emergency must be declared.  He said once declared, the City could 
enter into discussions regarding concessions.  He said unrepresented employees would 
typically take the same cuts as represented employees. He said prior to asking for 
concessions from the bargaining units, other methods to mitigate the loss of revenue 
include not filling open positions and not filling temporary positions.   
 
In response to a question by Mayor McManus regarding the removal of a capital project, 
City Manager Noyola stated staff was unable to take direction from one Council member; 
removal of an item from the Capital Project Plan required a vote of the body.  He stated 
budget workshops do not allow action. 
 
Mayor McManus stated if it was the policy of the Council not to move forward with a 
project, it should be removed. He said he would offer an amendment to Resolution No. 
7109 to include postponing all City-funded capital projects until January 2021.  He 
expressed his appreciation for the work of the Finance Department to improve the budget 
process.   
 
Finance Director Pelletier stated clarified there was no resolution for the budget and the 
special projects.    
 
Mayor McManus stated putting the capital projects on hold was wise.   He said the 
projects should be prioritized.  He said the City’s infrastructure had been ignored.  He 
148
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting 9 
 
questioned the necessity for Parks and Recreation projects and improvements such with 
declining revenues.   
 
In response to a question by Mayor McManus, Budget Manager Manninen stated she 
had sent the Council a breakdown of costs for professional services on May 12, 2020.   
 
Mayor McManus stated when there are substantial changes in line items such as 
Professional Services, questions arise.  
 
Budget Manager Manninen stated the Council and members of the public were able to 
access each line item and determine what the expenses are for each department under 
the specific line item.   
 
Mayor McManus stated the situation with the pandemic changes frequently.  He 
complimented staff for their response to the frequent changes.  He noted the special 
revenue accounts are dedicated to be the backup for when certain events occurred.  He 
said the accounts and the solar lease revenues provide stability for the City. 
 
B. Resolution No. 7108, a Resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, Nevada 
establishing classification titles and position ranges as required by City of Boulder 
City Municipal Code 1-5-5, approving part-time classification compensation 
increases and approving the full-time equivalent position count 
 
Motion: Approve Resolution No. 7108 
 
Moved by: Council member Bridges 
Seconded by: Council member Adams 
 
Vote: 
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard Adams, Council 
Member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Tracy Folda, Council Member Judith Hoskins 
(5) 
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
The motion was approved.  
 
C. Discussion and approval of the FY 2020-2021 Final Operating and Capital Budgets 
 
Motion: Approve the FY2020-2021 Final Operating and Capital Budgets with the 
stipulation that there will be no capital improvement projects initiated prior to January 1, 
2021.  Any additional funding for the projects must be council approved. 
 
Moved by: Mayor McManus 
Seconded by: Council member Bridges 
 
Vote: 
 
149
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting 10 
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard Adams, Council 
Member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Tracy Folda, Council Member Judith Hoskins 
(5) 
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
The motion was approved.  
 
D. Resolution No. 7109, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City augmenting 
the FY2019-2020 Budget for revenues and expenditures. 
 
Budget Manager Manninen stated the budget reductions for the current fiscal year were 
done internally.  She said the augmenting of FY 2019-2020 budget was to reflect the 
funding of the five new revenue accounts, and the addition of $500K to public safety salary 
line in order to prevent the accounts from exceeding the budget.   
 
Motion:  Approve Resolution No.  7109 
 
Moved by:   Council member Adams 
Seconded by:  Council member Folda 
 
Vote: 
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard Adams, Council 
Member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Tracy Folda, Council Member Judith Hoskins 
(5) 
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
The motion was approved.  
 
 
9. For possible action:  Matters pertaining to a lease agreement between the City 
of Boulder City and Lend a Hand for property located at 801 Adams Blvd: 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Finance Director Pelletier and included in the May 
26, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet. 
 
Finance Director Pelletier provided an overview of the staff report. She noted the 
proposed agreement was a zero rent lease with a 10-year lease option.  She said the 
term of the lease was 10 years due to the organization receiving CDBG monies; the 
funding required the organization to maintain residence in the building for 10 years.  She 
stated in order to lease the building for under the appraised value, it must be declared to 
be in the best interest of the City. 
 
150
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting 11 
 
Council member Adams stated it was in the best interest of the City and was an incredible 
benefit to the City.   
 
Council member Bridges agreed with Council member Adams.  She stated because the 
organization received grant money, often times the grants do not cover the administrative 
costs. She said Lend A Hand is in desperate need for space.   
 
Council member Hoskins stated she has used Lend A Hand during her husband’s illness.  
She said she knows of many people who have received services from Lend A Hand.  She 
expressed her full support of the lease agreement.   
 
In response to a question by Mayor McManus, City Attorney Morris noted Lend A Hand 
is a 501c3 organization which qualifies them to lease City owned land for under the 
appraised value per NRS and the City’s Charter.  He stated the City’s Charter speaks to 
all non-profits with regard to the ability to lease City-owned land, so there appears to be 
a discrepancy between State law and the City Charter.  He said he intends to seek an 
opinion from the Attorney General; however, it does not affect the matter tonight.   
 
Mayor McManus stated Lend A Hand has provided services to many people in the City.  
He said leasing the City’s building would help Lend A Hand which in turn helps the seniors 
in Boulder City.    
 
E. Resolution No. 7110, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, finding it to 
be in the best interest of the City to lease City-owned land to Land A Hand of 
Boulder City at or below the appraised value for the property known as Cottage 3 
at ABC Park, located at 801 Adams Boulevard 
 
Motion: Approve Resolution No. 7110 
 
Moved by:    Council member Adams  Seconded by: Council member Bridges 
 
Vote: 
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard Adams, Council 
Member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Tracy Folda, Council Member Judith Hoskins 
(5) 
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
F. Consideration of Bill No. 1874, an ordinance of the City of Boulder City approving 
Agreement No. 20-1876 between the City of Boulder City and Lend A Hand for 
rental of Cottage 3 at ABC Park, located at 801 Adams Boulevard 
 
Motion: Approve Bill No. 1874 
 
Moved by:    Council member Bridges  Seconded by: Council member Hoskins 
 
Vote: 
151
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting 12 
 
 
AYE: Mayor Kiernan McManus, Council Member James Howard Adams, Council 
Member Claudia Bridges, Council Member Tracy Folda, Council Member Judith Hoskins 
(5) 
 
NAY: None (0) 
 
Absent: None (0) 
 
The motion was approved. 
 
Bill No. 1874 will become known as Ordinance No. 1646 effective June 17, 2020.  
 
10. 
Presentation regarding Boulder City Police Department Crime and Activity Data 
 
A staff report had been submitted by Police Chief Shea and included in the May 26, 2020 
City Council Agenda Packet. 
 
Police Chief Tim Shea provided a report on crime statistics.  
 
In response to a question by Council member Adams, Police Chief Shea stated the 
number of rape cases may have increased due to increased reporting.  He stated the 
Police Department was receiving reports on cases that have occurred some time ago.  
He noted there was a large backlog on processing rape kits.    
 
Council member Folda stated crime statistics were a good resource in helping to identify 
problems and respond to high crime areas.  She said people in Boulder City look out for 
one another and report unusual activity.   
 
Council member Hoskins thanked Police Chief Shea for the report; it was very 
enlightening.  She also thanked Police Chief Shea and staff for their service.  She said 
she was very appreciative of their hard work.  
 
In response to a question by Council member Bridges, Police Chief Shea stated Officer 
Scott Pastore and Officer Guy Lietke were the officers who used horses to patrol.  He 
stated the department also had volunteers from the Horseman’s Association.  He stated 
he had two additional people going through training to use horses.  
 
Mayor McManus stated he appreciated the report.  He said he had heard concern 
regarding a possible increase in domestic battery during the pandemic.  
 
Police Chief Shea stated the department had not seen an increase in domestic battery 
calls.  He added late evening fights had decreased.    
 
152
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting 13 
 
In response to a question by Mayor McManus, Police Chief Shea noted the Police 
Department had a contract with a company to create a webpage where crime statistics 
are displayed; however, the project was stalled when the pandemic occurred.  He noted 
the project was in progress.  
 
11. 
City Manager’s Report: 
 
G. 
Claims Paid List, March 2020 
H. 
Financial Report, March 2020 
A staff report had been submitted by Finance Director Diane Pelletier and included in 
the May 26, 2020 City Council Agenda Packet. 
 
Finance Director Pelletier stated depreciation is only applicable to Enterpirse Funds.  She 
stated during last year’s audit, the City had omitted including depreciation in the budget.  
She stated in order to not have a finding, depreciation was added to all Enterprise Funds 
and there would be a year-end adjustment. She said depreciation represents the 
reduction in value of the utilities.  
 
The report was received. 
 
12. 
Public Comments  
 
No comments were offered and the public comment period was closed. 
 
13. 
City Council’s Report 
 
Council member Hoskins announced she had participated in a ZOOM meeting with 
Workforce Connections.   
 
Council member Bridges stated she had attended the SNRPC meeting earlier in the day, 
and due to a positive ending cash balance, there would be no charge to the municipalities.  
She said there would be another workshop in a couple months. She stated Emergency 
Aid had funds to help people with rent and mortgage. She said the organization had 
received money from the CARES Act and FEMA.  She stated Emergency Aid also had 
food available for those in need.  She announced Phase 2 of the Governor’s Reopening 
Plan begins on Friday.    
 
Mayor McManus stated he had attended the RTC Board meeting.  He said due to the 
decrease in revenues, it would be implementing a reduction in services.  He stated the 
bus service was funded exclusively by sales tax.  He said there would very likely be cuts 
to the bus service in Boulder City.  He said the RTC would start a shuttle for people 
attending community college where they could get a connection to downtown.  
 
 
153
DRAFT 
Minutes of the May 26, 2020 regular City Council meeting 14 
 
There being no further business to come before the Council, Mayor McManus adjourned 
the meeting at 10:14  p.m. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
______________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kiernan McManus, Mayor 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
___________________________ 
Lorene Krumm, City Clerk 
 
154
155
156
157
158
R7111 R7112 Agreements BLM Mutual Aid
SUBJECT:
For possible action: Matters pertaining to Mutual Aid and Operations Plan Agreements between the City of
Boulder City and the Bureau of Land Management and National Park Service, Lake Mead Recreation Area:
 
A.    Resolution No. 7111, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, approving Agreement No. 20-
1887, an interlocal Cooperative Fire Protection agreement between the agencies
    
B.    Resolution No. 7112, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, approving Agreement No. 20-
1888, the Operating Plan for Cooperative Fire Protection agreement between the agencies
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
ATTACHMENTS:
Description
Type
Item 2 Staff Report R7111 R7112
Cover Memo
R7111
Resolution Letter
Agreement Information Form - R7111
Backup Material
Agreement 20-1887
Backup Material
R7112
Resolution Letter
Agreement Information Form - R7112
Cover Memo
Agreement 20-1888
Backup Material
159
City Council Meeting 
June 9, 2020 
Item No. 2 
 
Staff Report 
 
 
TO: 
Alfonso Noyola, City Manager 
 
FROM: 
Will Gray, Fire Chief 
 
DATE: 
June 9, 2020 
 
 
SUBJECT:  For possible action: Matters pertaining to Mutual Aid and 
Operations Plan Agreements between the City of Boulder City and the 
Bureau of Land Management and National Park Service, Lake Mead 
Recreation Area: 
 
A.    Resolution No. 7111, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, 
approving Agreement No. 20-1887, an interlocal Cooperative Fire Protection 
agreement between the agencies 
     
B.    Resolution No. 7112, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, 
approving Agreement No. 20-1888, the Operating Plan for Cooperative Fire 
Protection agreement between the agencies 
 
Business Impact Statement:  This action will not have a significant 
economic impact on business and will not directly restrict the 
formation, operation, or expansion of a business. 
 
Action Requested:  That the City Council consider approval of 
Resolution Nos. 7111 and 7112. 
 
Overview: 
 
• The purpose of the Agreements is for the creation of a 
cooperative agreement that assists both Boulder City and the 
BLM with wildland fire management (prevention, detection and 
suppression of wildland fires) activities as requested and 
authorized   
• This agreement will also facilitate the exchange of personnel, 
equipment, facilities, aircraft, supplies, services, and funds 
 
 
BOULDER CITY 
CITY COUNCIL 
 
MAYOR 
KIERNAN MCMANUS 
 
COUNCIL MEMBERS: 
JAMES HOWARD ADAMS 
CLAUDIA M. BRIDGES 
TRACY FOLDA 
JUDITH A. HOSKINS 
◄ ● ► 
 
MEETING LOCATION: 
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBER 
401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NV 89005 
 
MAILING ADDRESS: 
401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NV 89005 
 
WEBPAGE:  
WWW.BCNV.ORG 
 
◄ ● ► 
 
CITY MANAGER: 
ALFONSO NOYOLA, ICMA-CM 
 
CITY ATTORNEY: 
STEVE MORRIS, ESQ 
 
CITY CLERK: 
LORENE KRUMM, MMC, CPO 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DIRECTOR: 
BRYCE BOLDT 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR: 
MICHAEL MAYES, AICP 
 
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: 
KEEGAN LITTRELL, P.E. 
 
UTILITIES DIRECTOR: 
DENNIS PORTER, P.E. 
 
POLICE CHIEF: 
TIM SHEA 
 
FIRE CHIEF: 
WILL GRAY, CFO 
 
FINANCE DIRECTOR: 
Diane Pelletier, CPA 
 
PARKS & RECREATION DIRECTOR 
ROGER HALL 
160
among the agencies, if it is deemed necessary during large-scale wildfire events.  
 
Background Information: The Boulder City Fire department is primarily responsible for 
all hazard responses, prevention, structure suppression, and wildland fire suppression 
occurring within the city limits of Boulder City.  However, these structures and lands 
protected by Boulder City Fire Department are intermingled or adjacent to lands 
protected by BLM.  Both agencies have limited resources available to combat these 
fires and would benefit from a cooperative agreement.   
 
There may be instances where Boulder City Fire units are closer to a wildland fire on or 
near the borders of the city, on National Park lands, or in BLM lands.  The agreement 
allows Boulder City Fire Department, BLM, and the National Park Service firefighting 
units to work together to extinguish these fires. 
 
The agreement also identifies methods to address reimbursement for larger events that 
exceed the 24-hours of the initial fire attack as outlined within.  Any services that would 
incur costs would need to be ordered by the incident commander during a major fire 
event. 
 
This year there is an anticipated increase in the wildfire activity due to the increase in 
spring showers.  This will likely lead to an increased number of wildfire events; 
therefore, it is mutually advantageous, and in the public interest, for the Parties to 
coordinate their efforts in the prevention, detection, and suppression of wildland fires in 
and adjacent to their areas of responsibility.   
 
Recommendation:  The Fire Department respectfully request that the City Council 
approve Resolution Nos. 7111 and 7112 that include Agreement Nos. 20-1887 and 20-
1888 between the City of Boulder City and the Bureau of Land Management and 
National Park Service, Lake Mead Recreation Area. 
 
 
Attachments: 
R7111 
Agreement Information Form-R7111 
Agreement No. 20-1887 
R7112 
Agreement Information Form-R7112 
Agreement No. 20-1888 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
161
 
RESOLUTION NO. 7111           
 
A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF BOULDER CITY, APPROVING 
AGREEMENT NO. 20-1887, AN INTER-LOCAL COOPERATIVE FIRE PROTECTION 
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF BOULDER CITY AND THE  BUREAU OF LAND 
MANAGEMENT AND NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, LAKE MEAD RECREATION AREA 
FOR MUTUAL AID IN WILDLAND FIRE PROTECTION INCIDENT RESPONSE 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Boulder City and the Bureau of Land Management and National 
Park Service, Lake Mead Recreation area establish an inter-local 
Cooperative Fire Protection agreement for mutual aid in fire protection and 
hazardous materials response; and 
 
WHEREAS,  it is beneficial for the City of Boulder City to enter into a mutual aid 
agreement with the Bureau of Land Management and National Park 
Service, Lake Mead Recreation area to render assistance and to receive 
assistance for supplemental wildland fire protection services; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Boulder City desires to enter into a mutual aid agreement with 
the Bureau of Land Management and National Park Service, Lake Mead 
Recreation area; and 
 
WHEREAS,  the Bureau of Land Management and National Park Service, Lake Mead 
Recreation area desires to enter into a mutual aid agreement with the City 
of Boulder City.   
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council that Resolution No. 7111, 
approving Agreement No. 20-1887, between the City of Boulder City and the Bureau of 
Land Management and National Park Service, Lake Mead Recreation area be approved.  
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the City Council that the City Manager is hereby 
authorized and directed to sign Agreement No. 20-1887.   
 
DATED and APPROVED this 9th day of June 2020. 
 
 
 
__________________________ 
Kiernan McManus, Mayor 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
______________________________ 
Lorene Krumm, City Clerk 
162
                                  Agreement Information Form 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Council Date: 
June 9. 2020 
 
Resolution/Ordinance #: 
R7111  
 
Agreement/Amendment No.: 20-1887  
 
Type of Agreement: 
Interlocal 
 
Description: 
SUBJECT:  For possible action: Matters pertaining to 
Mutual Aid and Operations Plan Agreements between the City of Boulder 
City and the Bureau of Land Management and National Park Service, Lake 
Mead Recreation Area: 
 
A.    Resolution No. 7111, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, 
approving Agreement No. 20-1887, an interlocal Cooperative Fire 
Protection agreement between the agencies 
     
 
 
Effective Date: 
07/01/2020 
 
Insurance: No 
 
When:        
 
Options: 
Yes 
 
 
Notes:        
 
Payment Due: 
NA 
 
Term Date:  
     
 
Department: 
Fire 
 
City of BC Contact: 
Will Gray 293-9228 
 
Project No.  NA 
163
                                  Agreement Information Form 
 
Contact Info: 
Tyler Hecht, Associate Fire Management Officer, 
Southern Nevada    Phone No. 702-715-6224 
4701 N. Torrey Pines Drive 
Las Vegas, NV 89130 
 
Notes/Comments: 
      
164
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Cooperator Agreement No. 
20-1887 
 
 
Page 1 of 15  
Rev. 03/07/19 
COOPERATIVE FIRE PROTECTION AGREEMENT 
Between 
 
BOULDER CITY FIRE DEPARTMENT  
(DUNS # 145186222)  
 
And 
 
USDI BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENTS 
SOUTHERN NEVADA DISTRICT 
(DUNS #084359236) 
 
 
 
USDI, NATIONAL PARK SERVICE 
LAKE MEAD NATIONAL RECREATION AREA 
(DUNS#039365775)  
 
 
This Cooperative Fire Protection Agreement is made and entered into by and between the United 
States Department of Interior, Bureau of Land Management, Southern Nevada District, individually 
referred to as BLM; United States Department of Interior,; United States Departement of Interior, 
National Park Service, Lake Mead National Recreation Area, hereinafter reffered to as NPS and the 
Boulder City through Boulder City Fire Department, hereinafter referred to as the Department.  
Collectively, all will be referred to as Parties. 
 
The above Parties are acting under the authority and provisions of:   
 
• 
Reciprocal Fire Protection Act of May 27, 1955, as amended (69 Stat. 66; 42 U.S.C. 1856)  
• 
Disaster Relief Act of May 22, 1974, (42 U.S.C. 5121 as amended)  
• 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (P.L. 93-288)  
• 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (H.R. 5005-8) 
• 
Homeland Security Presidential Directive-5 (HSPD-5) 
• 
Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006. (P.L 109-295, 120 Stat. 1355)  
• 
National Indian Forest Resources Management Act (P.L. 101-630, Title III) (Interior Agencies) 
• 
Service First, Section 330 of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 
2001, Pub. L. 106-291, 114 Stat. 996, 43 U.S.C. sec. 1701 note, as amended (FS,DOI) 
• 
Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999, as included in P.L. 105-277, 
section 101(e); 
• 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of Oct. 21, 1976, (P.L.94-579; 43 U.S.C.)(BLM) 
• 
NPS Organic Act (16 U.S.C.1) (NPS) 
• 
National Wildlife Refuge Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd-668ee, 80 Stat. 927, as amended) 
(FWS) 
• 
National Wildlife Refuge System Improvement Act of 1997 (P.L. 105-57) (FWS) 
• 
National Forest Management Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 1600) (FS) 
• 
US Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Acts 
• Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 474 
• Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 266 
165
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Cooperator Agreement No. 
20-1887 
 
 
Page 2 of 15  
Rev. 03/07/19 
• Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 414 Emergency Management 
 
I. PURPOSE 
 
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide for cooperation in the wildland fire management 
(prevention, detection and suppression of wildland fires) and in all-hazard emergency support function 
activities as requested and authorized.  This agreement also facilitates the exchange of personnel, 
equipment, facilities, aircraft, supplies services, and funds among the agencies. 
 
This Agreement describes the conditions in which “mutual aid” periods are established to provide 
resources to each other on a non-reimbursable basis.  This Agreement also describes the conditions of 
"Assistance by Hire" on a reimbursable basis.  This agreement can be used to provide resources for 
Federal Incident Management Teams. 
 
Upon execution, this agreement supersedes all previous agreements between any of the Parties.  
 
II. STATEMENT OF MUTUAL BENEFITS AND INTERESTS 
 
The Federal Agencies have the responsibility for prevention, protection and suppression of wildland 
fires on federally administered lands, and on adjacent or intermingled State and private forested/range 
lands as identified through written agreement. 
 
The Department is primarily responsible for all hazard response, prevention, structure suppression, and 
wildland fire suppression occurring to property within their jurisdictional boundaries.  These structures 
and lands protected by the Department are intermingled or adjacent to lands protected by the Federal 
Agencies. 
 
Therefore, it is mutually advantageous, and in the public interest, for the Parties to coordinate their 
efforts in the prevention, detection, and suppression of wildland fires in and adjacent to their areas of 
responsibility. 
 
It is also mutually advantageous for the Parties to provide support and participate in presidentially 
declared emergencies and disasters.  
 
III. DEFINITIONS  
 
1. Administration/ Planning: Parties will work together for joint pre-incident planning and 
administration preparation to coordinate incident operations including development of response 
plans for high-hazard communities. 
 
2. Agency Representative:  This Incident Command System position serves as the point of contact 
for an assisting or cooperating agency which has been delegated authority to make decisions on 
all matters affecting that agency’s participation at the incident. 
 
3. Agency Administrator:  The official responsible for the management of a geographic unit or 
functional area.  The managing officer of an agency, division thereof, or jurisdiction having 
statutory responsibility for incident mitigation and management.  Examples:  NPS Park 
Superintendent, BIA Agency Superintendent, USFS Forest Supervisor, BLM District Manager, 
FWS Refuge Manager, State Forest Officer, Tribal Chairperson, Fire Chief, Police Chief. 
166
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Cooperator Agreement No. 
20-1887 
 
 
Page 3 of 15  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
4. Boundary Line Fire:  Fire occurrences on lands of intermingled and/or adjoining protection 
responsibilities. 
 
5. Closest Forces Concept:   Dispatch of the closest available initial attack suppression resources. 
 
6. Extended Attack Fire:  A fire which has exceeded, or is expected to exceed initial attack 
capabilities or prescription. 
 
7. Fee Basis Acquisition of Services:  One agency provides fire management services on the lands 
under the jurisdiction of another and payment is provided for the service. For a given fee, one 
agency can become the protecting agency for the other. The fee (or cost) is the price for the work 
agreed to be performed on each acre of land. 
 
8. Fire Management Activities and/or Services:  Any or all activities that relate to managing fire 
or fuels on lands under the jurisdiction of any agency to this Agreement.  Activities include, but 
are not limited to: suppression, prescribed fire/fuels management, fire analysis/planning, 
rehabilitation, training, prevention, public affairs, and other beneficial efforts. 
 
9. Geographic Area Coordination Center (GACC):  The physical location of an interagency, 
regional operation center for the effective coordination, mobilization and demobilization of 
emergency management resources.  A coordination center serves federal, state and local wildland 
fire agencies through logistical coordination of resources throughout the geographic area, and 
with other geographic areas, as well. 
 
10. Division of Emergency Management Coordination Center (DEMC):  This 
coordination center is recognized as a local center under the Sierra Front Interagency 
Dispatch Center and /or Great Basin Coordination Center (GBCC) and serves Nevada 
State (excluding the NDF) and local government agencies through logistical coordination 
of resources within the Great Basin and other geographic areas utilizing the Resource 
Ordering and Status System (IROC).  
 
11. Initial Attack:  A preplanned response to a wildfire given the wildfire’s potential.  Initial 
attack may include size up, patrolling, monitoring, holding action or suppression. 
 
12. Initial Attack Fire:  A fire that is generally contained by the first dispatched fire 
suppression resources without significant augmentation or reinforcement. 
 
13. Initial Attack Area:  An identified area in which predetermined resources would 
normally be the initial resource to respond to an incident as identified in the jurisdictional 
maps in the Operating Plan (OP). 
 
14. Interagency:  Involvement of two or more agencies to this Agreement. 
 
15. Jurisdictional Agency:  The Agency having land and resource management and/or protection 
responsibility for a specific geographical or functional area as provided by federal, state or local 
law or agreement. 
 
167
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Cooperator Agreement No. 
20-1887 
 
 
Page 4 of 15  
Rev. 03/07/19 
16. Mutual Aid (Reciprocal Fire Suppression):  Reciprocal fire suppression is the act of helping 
the protecting Agency to suppress wildfires.  Reciprocity is attained by agreeing among agencies 
regarding the kind, location and numbers of firefighting resources which will automatically be 
made available as part of the initial response to a wildfire, regardless of the protecting Agency.  
The kind, location, and numbers of resources which constitute reciprocity are defined in the 
Operating Plan (OP).  Reciprocity may be thought of as the implementing mechanism of the 
closest forces concept. 
 
17. Off Season:  This period is defined as the period of time where Federal Agencies typically do 
not have their initial attack resources readily available and local government resources utilized 
will be considered assistance by hire.  Off season dates are defined in the OP. 
 
18. Operating Plan - Statewide:  A plan which will include all statewide considerations.  This will 
be developed at the state level and approved by affected federal, tribal, and state agencies. 
 
19. Operating Plan – Local Sub-geographic Area:  A plan generated at a local sub-geographic 
level and authorized by Unit Administrators for implementing the Master Cooperative Wildland 
Fire Management Agreement in their respective areas of responsibilities. 
 
20. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE):  Based on National Wildfire Coordinating Group 
(NWCG) standards equipment and clothing required to mitigate the risk of injury from or 
exposure to hazardous conditions encountered during the performance of duty.   
 
21. Preparedness:  Activities that lead to a safe, efficient, and cost effective fire management 
program in support of land and resource management objectives through appropriate planning 
and coordination. 
 
22. Prescribed Fire:  Any fire intentionally ignited by management actions in accordance with 
applicable laws, policies, and regulations to meet specific objectives. 
 
23. Prevention:  Activities directed at reducing the incidence of fires, including public education, 
law enforcement, personal contact and the reduction of fuel hazards (fuels management). 
 
24. Procurement Documents:  Agency specific financial obligation documents. 
 
25. Protecting Agency:  The Agency responsible for providing direct incident management within a 
specific geographical area pursuant to its jurisdictional responsibility or as specified and 
provided by federal or state law, contract, cooperative agreement, etc. 
 
26. Protection:  The actions taken to limit the adverse environmental, social, political, economic, 
and community values at risk. 
 
27. Protection Area:  That area for which a particular fire protection organization has the primary 
responsibility for attacking and uncontrolled fire and for directing the suppression action. 
 
28. Protection Area Maps:  Official maps which identify areas of direct fire protection 
responsibility for each agency. 
 
168
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Cooperator Agreement No. 
20-1887 
 
 
Page 5 of 15  
Rev. 03/07/19 
29. Protection Boundary:  The exterior perimeter of an area within which a specified fire agency 
has assumed a degree of responsibility for wildland fire control.  It may include land in addition 
to that for which the agency has jurisdiction or contractual responsibility. 
 
30. Reimbursable Costs:  All costs associated with operations and support ordered on a resource 
order or project plan by or for an incident or project within the provisions of this Agreement. 
Actual costs may include, but are not limited to, the following:  
 
a. Agency costs for transportation, salary, benefits, overtime, backfill for personnel assigned 
to an incident, project or prepositioning of resource and  per diem of individuals assigned 
to the incident or project. 
b. Additional support dispatching, warehousing or transportation services supporting a 
resource order. 
c. Cost of equipment in support of the incident such as contract equipment, approved 
equipment repairs, and operating costs for agency equipment (use).  For long duration 
assignments (greater than 30 days), Fixed Ownership Rates (FOR) may be charged to the 
incident for each completed 30-day period. 
d. Aircraft, airport fees, and retardant and other fire chemical costs. 
e. Agency-owned equipment and supplies lost, damaged, or expended by the supporting 
agency. 
f. Cost of supplies expended in support of the incident.  Supplies are defined as per 
National Mobilization Guide. 
g. Charges from state-provided resources. 
h. Federal, State and local agency equipment rates listed in the rate schedule are considered 
“wet” and operating costs (such as fuel) should be factored into the rate schedule.  Fuel, 
oil and other operating supplies provided at the incident are billable by the incident 
agency.  Operating supplies for rental vehicles are reimbursable and may be billed to the 
incident agency. 
 
31. Servicing Dispatch Center:  The dispatch center of the federal agency or Department who 
supports the initial response resources and/or first qualified agency fire officer on-scene who 
assumes command responsibility.  
 
32. Supplemental Fire Department Resources:  Overhead tied to a local fire department generally 
by agreement, which are mobilized primarily for response to incidents or wildland fires outside 
their district or mutual aid zone.  They are not a permanent part of the local fire organization and 
are not required to attend scheduled training, meetings, etc. of the department staff. 
 
33. Supplemental Fire Suppression and Cost Share Agreement:  A document prepared to 
distribute costs on a multi-jurisdictional incident. 
 
34. Supporting Agency:  An agency providing suppression or other support and resource assistance 
to a protecting agency. 
 
35. Suppression:  Management action to extinguish a fire or confine fire spread beginning with its 
discovery. 
 
36. Third Party:  A municipal or rural fire district that does not have a local agreement with a 
federal agency but is formally recognized by their respective state and has entered into a local 
169
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Cooperator Agreement No. 
20-1887 
 
 
Page 6 of 15  
Rev. 03/07/19 
agreement with the state for fire management services. 
 
37. Unit Administrator:  The individual assigned administrative responsibilities for an established 
organizational unit, such as Forest Supervisor for the Forest Service, District Manager for the 
Bureau of Land Management, Agency Superintendent for the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Park 
Superintendent for the National Park Service, and Project Leader for Fish and Wildlife Service, 
State Forester/Fire Warden for Nevada Division of Forestry (NDF) and local jurisdiction 
administrator. 
 
38. Wildfire:  An unplanned, unwanted wildland fire, including unauthorized human-caused fires, 
escaped wildland fire use events, escaped prescribed fire projects and all other wildland fires 
where the objective is to put the fire out. 
 
39. Wildland Fire:  A non-structure fire that occurs in vegetation or natural fuels.  Wildland fires 
are categorized into two distinct types: 
 
a. Wildfires – Unplanned ignitions or prescribed fires that are declared wildfires  
b. Prescribed Fires – Planned ignitions 
 
IV. GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
OPERATING PLANS.  The Parties will meet annually, prior to the initiation of fire season 
(recommend by April 1) to prepare an Operating Plan (OP).  This OP will include mutual aid 
time/duration and distance/boundaries; command structure; communications; qualifications; 
reimbursement/compensation; cooperation; agency reviews and investigations; dispatch center 
operations; protection area maps for all Parties and any other items identified in this Agreement as 
necessary for efficient implementation.  The OP shall become attached to and a part of this 
Agreement.  If an OP has not been executed for the current year, the last executed OP shall be 
utilized. 
 
RECIPROCAL FIRE PROTECTION (Mutual Aid).  As deemed appropriate, the Parties will 
establish reciprocal initial attack areas for lands of intermingled or adjoining protection 
responsibilities.  Within such areas supporting Parties will, upon request or voluntarily, take initial 
attack action in support of the Protecting Party.  The length of mutual aid period should not exceed 
24 hours, unless specifically stated by agreement or contract, and will be documented in the OP. 
 
ASSISTANCE BY HIRE.  Assistance by Hire is the provision of fire suppression resources, by one 
Party to another, on a reimbursement basis.  All requests to hire fire protection assistance must be 
clear and precise and shall be processed and recorded through the dispatching systems of the Parties. 
Requests not processed in this manner will not be reimbursable.  Personnel, equipment, supplies or 
services provided by the Supporting Party and essential to filling the resource order, which are 
necessary and reasonable, shall be considered as reimbursable as Assistance by Hire.  The 
Department may provide out-of-region assistance as defined within the Nevada Intrastate Mutual 
Aid System Operating Plan to the federal agencies when requested.  Maps for this region will be 
attached to the OP.  Such assistance will be Assistance-by-Hire unless otherwise specified as mutual 
aid in the OP pursuant to this agreement. 
 
Local fire department personnel responding to incidents on Federal Agencies lands must: 
• be 18 years of age or older; 
170
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Cooperator Agreement No. 
20-1887 
 
 
Page 7 of 15  
Rev. 03/07/19 
• have and use the required personal protective equipment (PPE) found in the Interagency 
Standards for Fire and Fire Aviation Operations (“Red Book” Ch. 7); and 
• have a basic level of wildland fire training.  The National Wildfire Coordinating Group 
(NWCG) course S-190 and S-130 are recommended, both courses can be modified to fit 
local needs. 
 
Non-dispatched resources from any party will be considered a voluntary contribution.  
 
All resources provided by the Department for suppression activities on federally administered lands 
during the “off season” will be considered assistance by hire.  This period is defined as the period of 
time that Federal Agencies typically do not have their initial attack resources readily available.  Off 
season dates are defined in the OP. 
 
The BLM and the Department will provide current rate schedules and updates when rates change. 
The rates will be posted and updated in the OP. 
 
Fire engines (all types), water tenders (all types) and initial attack overhead are mutual aid resources.  
All other resources, personnel and equipment are assistance by hire including personnel assigned to 
recognized incident management teams.  Aircraft and hand crews and their associated support costs 
are considered assistance by hire. 
 
REQUESTED ASSISTANCE.  Outside initial attack areas, when requested by the Protecting Party, 
the Supporting Party will, within their capability, provide initial action or other support on wildland 
fires.  Such requested assistance is reimbursable. 
 
CLOSEST FORCES.  The Department and the Federal agencies agree to aggressively pursue initial 
attack plans that utilize “Closest Forces” wherever appropriate, and to identify preplanned initial 
attack areas within their respective jurisdictions.  This philosophy dictates that the closest available 
appropriate resources, regardless of ownership, shall be utilized initially.  The emphasis to get the 
closest resources to respond to initial attack fires is in the best interest of all Parties.  The first 
qualified agency fire officer on-scene shall assume command responsibility, and will transition to a 
qualified incident commander upon their arrival. The servicing dispatch center shall be notified of all 
changes in command as soon as possible. This philosophy will also be applied to ongoing incidents 
whenever there is a critical and immediate need for the protection of life and property. Beyond 
“initial attack”, this concept is modified and the Protecting Party will request the “most appropriate 
resource” to aid in the suppression of a wildfire. 
 
INDEPENDENT ACTION.  Except as otherwise described in the OP, any Party on its own initiative 
and without reimbursement may go upon lands protected by another Party to suppress wildfires, if 
the fire is a threat to property within that Party’s protection responsibility.  In such instances, the 
Party taking action will promptly notify the Protecting Party.   
 
If any Party takes action on an incident independently, the Supporting Party will furnish the 
Protecting Party a preliminary report (verbal) within 24 hours of the action taken and a written 
incident report within ten (10) days. 
 
ALL HAZARD RESPONSE.  The Federal Agencies shall not respond to all hazard incidents (i.e., 
structure fires, vehicle fires or traffic accidents) in lieu of the Department.  The Department has the 
authority to mitigate any all hazard incidents considered to be a hazard to the public.  The Federal 
171
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Cooperator Agreement No. 
20-1887 
 
 
Page 8 of 15  
Rev. 03/07/19 
Agencies may, as trained and available, respond to such incidents when adjacent wildlands covered 
under this Agreement are threatened by fire from such incidents 
 
NOTIFICATIONS.  Supporting Party will promptly notify the Protecting Party of fires burning on 
or threatening lands for which that Party has protection responsibility.  When taking action, the 
Supporting Party will, as soon as possible, notify the Protecting Party in accordance with the OP, 
detailing what equipment and personnel have been dispatched to the incident location. 
 
BOUNDARY LINE FIRES.  Boundary line fires will be the initial attack responsibility of the 
Protecting Parties on either side of the boundary.  Neither party will assume the other is aware of the 
fire or is taking action.  Each party will make every reasonable effort to communicate with the other 
Parties concerning the fire.  The officer-in-charge who arrives first at the fire will act as initial attack 
Incident Commander.  When all Parties have arrived, they shall establish a command structure 
including Unified Command, as appropriate and notify the servicing dispatch center. 
 
COST SHARING.  Whenever multiple jurisdictions are affected due to the location of a fire, it is 
mandatory to develop and implement a Cost Share Agreement (or Apportionment Process, if 
applicable).  The Operating Plan must address how the Parties to this Agreement will handle cost-
sharing for wildland fires that spread to another jurisdiction. 
 
The Agencies agree that all reasonable and necessary costs incurred to meet the protection 
responsibilities within an Agency's Direct Protection Area will be the responsibility of that Agency. 
 
Typically, suppression actions and their associated costs are driven by perceived threat to values at 
risk.  Values at risk may, in turn, require more intense suppression efforts and, therefore, higher 
suppression costs in one Agency's direct protection area than in another.  These situations will be 
considered when determining each Agency's share of the costs for an incident, along with simple and 
equitable cost sharing. 
 
Incidents within the mutual aid period not utilizing assistance by hire resources do not require a cost 
share. 
 
If the Department is covered under a Wildland Fire Protection Program (WFPP) agreement with 
NDF and the incident falls under that agreement, NDF will be a signatory party on the cost share. 
 
COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS.  The Parties agree to share the use of communication systems, 
radios and radio frequencies for the execution of this Agreement.  Sharing of frequencies must be 
approved only by authorized personnel for each Party and documented in the OP.  Pre-identified 
incident communication protocols will be established and followed (e.g., frequencies plans, points of 
contact, and interoperable radio hardware). 
 
FACILITIES, EQUIPMENT AND SUPPORT   The Parties may procure, loan, lease, share or 
exchange facilities, equipment and support services.  This may include, but is not limited to, such 
things as dispatch centers, training facilities, administrative offices, fire stations, air attack bases, 
lookouts, warehouses, vehicles, fire equipment, remote automated weather stations, lightning 
“detection” equipment and communications equipment.  OPs may outline conditions for specific 
situations.  Whenever it has been mutually agreed, fees for such use, as might be found in special use 
permits or other similar documents, may be waived.  Any operational costs required for such 
172
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Cooperator Agreement No. 
20-1887 
 
 
Page 9 of 15  
Rev. 03/07/19 
proposed use may be shared and/or reimbursed.  Any shared cost or reimbursements will be 
governed in accordance with the existing policy of involved Parties. 
 
NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.  The Parties to this Agreement will operate 
under the concepts defined in the National Incident Management System (NIMS) including: the 
Incident Command System (ICS), qualification system, training system, the management of 
publications, and participate in the review, exchange, and transfer of technology as appropriate for 
providing qualified resources, and for the management of incidents covered by this Agreement.  
During initial attack, all agencies will accept each other’s training and qualifications, and equipment 
standards.  Once jurisdiction is clearly established, the standards of the jurisdictional agency shall 
apply. 
 
DETERMINATION OF CAUSE AND PRESERVATION OF EVIDENCE.  The Parties will 
attempt to protect the point of origin of the fire and evidence pertaining to the fire cause.  On initial 
attack actions, the Party taking the action is responsible to gather and preserve evidence and 
information pertaining to the origin and cause of the fire.  To the extent permitted by applicable 
County, State and Federal laws, the Parties will cooperate to jointly investigate wildland fires of 
mutual interest and provide the appropriate jurisdictional Party with investigation files relative to 
specific fires.  Each Party will promptly notify the other Parties when there is potential for cost 
recovery on a fire occurring on lands under the jurisdiction of the other Party. 
 
TRAINING.  The Parties will cooperator to insure that jointly provided training will produce safe 
and effective fire and aviation programs.  The intent is to provide high quality training that will 
minimize training costs by sharing of resources, standardization of courses, improve firefighting 
efficiency and safety.  Each Party will bear the cost of training for their respective employees unless 
specifically addressed in the OP. 
 
EQUIPMENT.  Equipment owned and used by either Party to suppress fires on lands for which the 
other is responsible shall normally be operated, serviced, and repaired by the owning Party.  This 
includes fuel, lubricants, and maintenance.  See III.31 Definitions, reimbursable equipment costs.  
Special rates for Federal Excess Personal Property (FEPP) equipment will be displayed in the rate 
schedule, which eliminates any purchase or replacement costs for the apparatus. Drivers and 
equipment operators will hold appropriate operating licenses to meet their respective Department, 
State and Federal regulations. 
 
BILLING PROCEDURES.  The Supporting Party will bill the Protecting Party for actual costs 
incurred for assistance provided and identified as reimbursable.  Reimbursable costs include all costs 
associated with the direct fire operations and incident support ordered by or for the incident (except 
as otherwise described in reciprocal initial attack and independent action situations or cost share 
agreements). All billing packages will include documentation showing the order was processed 
through and tracked by the Protecting agency. This request process requires the servicing dispatch 
center to notify the BLM duty officer prior to submission of the request to DEMC. 
 
For reimbursement under the terms of this agreement all resource orders beyond initial attack must 
be mobilized and processed by an interagency dispatch center. 
 
Reimbursable costs may also include transportation, salary, benefits, overtime, and per diem of 
Department personnel assigned to Incident Management Teams and those resources dispatched to 
other miscellaneous assignments.  Rates and conditions of use for the equipment and personnel will 
173
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Cooperator Agreement No. 
20-1887 
 
 
Page 10 of 15  
Rev. 03/07/19 
be mutually agreed to and documented in the OP.  Reimbursement will not be provided for both the 
“backfill” resource and resources mobilized to an incident for the same time period (i.e., Only one 
type of resource may be billed per day – either the backfill resource or the incident resource.  
Occasionally, more than one person may be required to fulfill an agency’s backfill shift requirement.  
In those cases, no more than 24 hours per day will be billed for the backfill resources.). 
 
On fires where costs are incurred pursuant to the terms of this agreement, the Supporting Party shall 
submit a bill or estimate for reimbursement as soon as possible, but no later than 180 days after the 
fire is declared out. If the total cost is not known at the time of initial billing, a partial bill or 
estimated bill, so identified, may be submitted.  Payment shall be made to the Supporting Party 
within 90 days after receipt of the billing invoice. 
 
Billing deadlines set forth herein are intended to encourage prompt billing.  Failure to meet these 
timeframes shall not be construed as a release or waiver of claims for reimbursement against the 
other Party. 
 
Should additional costs be identified after a "final" billing has been issued, a supplemental bill may 
be issued if agreeable to applicable Parties. 
 
Wildland Fire Protection Program (WFPP) - If the Department is covered under a WFPP agreement 
with NDF and the incident falls under that agreement, billings may be submitted to NDF.  Costs for 
incidents that do not fall under a WFPP agreement shall be billed to BLM. 
 
APPROPRIATED FUND LIMITATION.  Parties to this agreement are not obligated to make 
expenditures of funds or reimbursement of expenditures under terms of this agreement unless the 
Congress of the United States of America appropriates such funds for that purpose by the Counties 
of Boulder City, and/or the Governing Board of Fire Commissioners of Boulder City Fire 
Department. 
 
FIRE PREVENTION.  Parties agree to share responsibilities and materials for fire prevention 
activities.  Materials may include posters for display in public buildings, businesses and the like.  
Parties will share responsibility for fire protection and rural fire safety presentations and 
demonstrations. 
 
NONDISCRIMINATION.  The Department shall comply with all Federal statutes relating to 
nondiscrimination and all applicable requirements of all other Federal laws, Executive orders, 
regulations, and policies.  These include, but are not limited to Sections 119 and 504 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as amended, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, 
religion, sex, age, national origin, marital status, familial status, sexual orientation, participation in 
any public assistance program, or disability. 
 
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)   Public access to agreement records shall not be 
limited, except when such records must be kept confidential and would have been exempted from 
disclosure pursuant to “Freedom of Information” regulations (5 U.S.C. 552). 
 
PRINCIPAL CONTACTS.  Individuals listed below are authorized to act in their respective areas 
for matters related to this agreement. 
 
 
174
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Cooperator Agreement No. 
20-1887 
 
 
Page 11 of 15  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
 
Principal Department Contacts: 
 
Department  
Program Contact 
Department 
Administrative Contact 
Name:Will Gray, Fire Chief 
Address:  1101 Elm St 
City, State, Zip: Boulder City, NV 89005 
Telephone: 702-293-9228 
FAX:  
Email: wgray@bcnv.org 
Name: Jennifer Rogers 
Address:  1101 Elm St 
City, State, Zip:  Boulder City, NV 89005 
Telephone: 702-293-9228 
FAX:   
Email: fire@bcnv.org 
 
Principal Bureau of Land Management Contacts: 
 
Bureau of Land Management 
Program Manager Contact 
Bureau of Land Management 
Administrative Contact 
Name:  Gera Ashton  
Address:  4701 N. Torrey Pines Dr  
City, State, Zip:  Las Vegas, NV 89130 
Telephone: 702-515-5220  
FAX:   
Email:gashton@blm.gov  
Name:  Tyler Hecht   
Address:  4701. N Torrey Pines Dr.  
City, State, Zip:  Las Vegas, NV 89130 
Telephone:  702-515-5135  
FAX:   
Email: thecht@blm.gov  
 
 
Principal Bureau of Land Management Contacts: 
 
National Park Service  
Program Manager Contact 
National Park Service 
Administrative Contact 
Name: Mergaret L Goodro 
Address:  601 Nevada Hwy 
City, State, Zip:  Boulder City, NV 89005 
Telephone: 702-293-8920 
FAX:   
Email: Margaret_goodro@nps 
Name:  John Foley 
Address:  601 Nevada Hwy 
City, State, Zip:  Boulder City, NV 89005 
Telephone:  702-293-8829 
FAX:   
Email: jcfoley@nps.gov  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
175
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Cooperator Agreement No. 
20-1887 
 
 
Page 12 of 15  
Rev. 03/07/19 
SYSTEM FOR AWARD MANAGEMENT REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT (SAM).  
Department shall maintain current information in the System for Award Management (SAM) until 
receipt of final payment.  This requires review and update to the information at least annually after 
the initial registration, and more frequently if required by changes in information or agreement 
term(s).  For purposes of this agreement, System for Award Management (SAM) means the Federal 
repository into which an entity must provide information required for the conduct of business as a 
Cooperative.  Additional information about registration procedures may be found at the SAM 
internet site at www.sam.gov. 
 
FIRE RESTRICTIONS AND CLOSURES.  Parties will coordinate restrictions and closures to the 
extent practicable. 
 
PRESCRIBED FIRE AND FUELS MANAGEMENT.  The Jurisdictional Party will inform all 
Parties of prescribed fires it is managing.  Support during a prescribed burn is not covered under this 
Agreement.  The agencies to this agreement may provide assistance to one another as requested and 
agreed to for the purposes of performing fuels management work.  Conditions of the assistance and 
details related to reimbursement will be agreed to and documented in a separate instrument. 
 
EMPLOYMENT POLICY.  Employees of the Parties of this Agreement shall at all times be subject 
only to the laws, regulations, and rules governing their employment, regardless of incident location, 
and shall not be entitled to compensation or other benefits of any kind other than specifically 
provided by the terms of their employment. 
 
RECIPROCAL WAIVER OF CLAIMS.  Except as otherwise provided in this agreement, all Parties 
to this agreement hereby waive claims between and/or against each other arising from the 
performance of this agreement, for compensation for loss or damage to each other’s property, and 
personal injury including death of employees, agents, and contractors, except that this waiver shall 
not apply to intentional torts. 
 
BLM or the Department may reimburse each other providing resources were ordered through the 
dispatch system for the cost of emergency apparatus or equipment loss or damage where the loss or 
damage is directly attributable to the incident, and where the local agency, its employees, and/or 
operational failures in the emergency apparatus or support equipment are not a contributing factor to 
such damage or loss.  Loss or damage to local agency emergency apparatus or support equipment 
while travelling to or from an incident, and repairs due to normal wear and tear or due to negligent or 
unlawful operation by the operator shall be the responsibility of the local agency providing the 
emergency apparatus or support equipment. 
 
Loss or damage to local agency emergency apparatus or support equipment occurring on an incident 
as provided in this agreement is to be reported to the incident finance section or incident agency to 
ensure proper documentation and investigation are completed. 
 
If any Party is not able to resolve a claim regarding compensation, reimbursement, damage or 
equipment repair through negotiation with an assigned Incident Management Team or local incident 
agency, they should contact the appropriate agency’s administrative office in Nevada. 
 
Agencies will be liable for their own actions during mutual aid response or independent action as 
outlined in clause IV.6. 
 
176
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Cooperator Agreement No. 
20-1887 
 
 
Page 13 of 15  
Rev. 03/07/19 
REIMBURSEMENT FOR EMEGENCY APPARATUS LOSS OR DAMAGE.  Parties to this 
agreement may be reimbursed for the cost of emergency apparatus loss or damage where the loss or 
damage is directly attributable to the incident, and where the local agency, its employees, and/or 
operational failures in the emergency apparatus or support equipment are not a contributing factor to 
such damage or loss.  Loss or damage to local agency apparatus or support equipment while 
traveling to or from an incident, and repairs due to normal wear and tear, or due to negligent or 
unlawful operation by the operator shall be the responsibility of the local agency providing the 
emergency apparatus or support equipment.  Loss or damage to local agency emergency apparatus or 
support equipment occurring on an incident is to be reported to the incident finance section (or 
jurisdictional agency when finance section is not available) to ensure proper documentation and an 
investigation is completed. 
 
CLAIMS DISPUTE RESOLUTION.  Should any Party not be able to resolve a claim regarding 
compensation, reimbursement, damage or equipment repair through negotiation with the protecting 
agency, it should be elevated to the next higher level of management for resolution. 
 
MODIFICATION.  Modifications within the scope of the instrument must be made by mutual 
consent of the Parties, by the issuance of a written modification, signed and dated by all Parties, 
prior to any changes being performed.  The BLM is not obligated to fund any changes not properly 
approved in advance. 
 
COMMENCEMENT/EXPIRATION DATE.  This instrument is executed as of the date of last 
signature and is effective for five years from said date, at which time it will expire unless extended. 
 
TERMINATION BY MUTUAL AGREEMENT.  This Agreement may be terminated, in whole or 
part, as follows:    
 
a. When the BLM and Department agree upon the termination conditions, including the 
effective date and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. 
 
b. By 30 days written notification Department to the BLM setting forth the reasons for 
termination, effective date, and in the case of partial termination, the portion to be 
terminated.  
 
c. If, in the case of a partial termination, the BLM determines that the remaining portion of 
the agreement will not accomplish the purposes for which the agreement was made, the 
BLM may terminate the agreement in its entirety. 
 
Upon termination of an agreement, Department shall not incur any new obligations for the 
terminated portion of the agreement after the effective date, and shall cancel as many outstanding 
obligations as possible.  The BLM shall allow full credit to Department for the United States federal 
share of the non-cancelable obligations properly incurred by Department up to the effective date of 
the termination.  Excess funds shall be refunded within 60 days after the effective date of 
termination. 
 
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES.  By signature below, each Party certifies that the individuals 
listed in this document as representatives of the individual Parties are authorized to act in their 
respective areas for matters related to this instrument.  In witness whereof, the Parties hereto have 
executed this instrument as of the last date written below. 
177
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Cooperator Agreement No. 
20-1887 
 
 
Page 14 of 15  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
 
 
  
Will Gray, Fire Chief 
Boulder City Fire Department  
 Date 
 
 
 
  
Kiernan McManus, Mayor 
 
 
 Date 
Alfonso Noyola, City Manager 
 
Approved as to Form 
 
 
 Date 
 
 
 
  
Steven L. Morris, City Attorney 
 Date 
 
 
 
Gera Ashton, Acting District Manager 
USDI, Bureau of Land Management 
Southern Nevada District 
 Date 
 
 
 
  
Tyler Hecht, Acting District Fire Management Officer 
USDI, Bureau of Land Management 
Southern Nevada District 
 Date 
 
The authority and format of this instrument have been reviewed and approved for signature. 
 
 
 
  
DAVID APPOLD, Supervisory Procurement Analyst 
USDI, Bureau of Land Management 
Nevada State Office 
 Date 
 
 
 
The authority and format of this instrument have been reviewed and approved for signature. 
 
 
 
 
  
Margaret L Goodro, Park Superintendent  
USDI, National Park Service 
Lake Mead National Recreation Area  
 Date 
178
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Cooperator Agreement No. 
20-1887 
 
 
Page 15 of 15  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
 
 
  
John Foley, Fire Management Officer 
USDI, National Park Service 
Lake Mead National Recreation Area  
 Date 
 
The authority and format of this instrument have been reviewed and approved for signature. 
 
 
 
 
  
Greg Hauburger, Chief of Acquisitions  
USDI, National Park Service 
Contracting  
 Date 
 
 
 
179
 
RESOLUTION NO. 7112           
 
A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF BOULDER CITY, APPROVING 
AGREEMENT NO. 20-1888, AN INTER-LOCAL OPERATING PLAN FOR COOPERATIVE 
FIRE PROTECTION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF BOULDER CITY AND THE  
BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT AND NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, LAKE MEAD 
RECREATION AREA FOR MUTUAL AID IN WILDLAND FIRE PROTECTION INCIDENT 
RESPONSE 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Boulder City and the Bureau of Land Management and National 
Park Service, Lake Mead Recreation area establish an inter-local Operating 
Plan for Cooperative Fire Protection agreement for mutual aid in fire 
protection and hazardous materials response; and 
 
WHEREAS,  it is beneficial for the City of Boulder City to enter into a mutual aid 
agreement with the Bureau of Land Management and National Park 
Service, Lake Mead Recreation area to render assistance and to receive 
assistance for supplemental wildland fire protection services; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Boulder City desires to enter into a mutual aid agreement with 
the Bureau of Land Management and National Park Service Lake Mead 
Recreation area); and 
 
WHEREAS,  the Bureau of Land Management and National Park Service, Lake Mead 
Recreation area desires to enter into a mutual aid agreement with the City 
of Boulder City.   
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council that Resolution No. 7112, 
approving Agreement No. 20-1888, between the City of Boulder City and the Bureau of 
Land Management and National Park Service, Lake Mead Recreation area be approved.  
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the City Council that the City Manager is hereby 
authorized and directed to sign Agreement No. 20-1888.   
 
DATED and APPROVED this 9th day of June 2020. 
 
 
 
__________________________ 
Kiernan McManus, Mayor 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
______________________________ 
Lorene Krumm, City Clerk 
180
                                  Agreement Information Form 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Council Date: 
June 9. 2020 
 
Resolution/Ordinance #: 
R7112 
 
Agreement/Amendment No.: 20-1888 
 
Type of Agreement: 
Interlocal 
 
Description: 
SUBJECT:  For possible action: Matters pertaining to 
Mutual Aid and Operations Plan Agreements between the City of Boulder 
City and the Bureau of Land Management and National Park Service, Lake 
Mead Recreation Area: 
     
B.    Resolution No. 7112, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, 
approving Agreement No. 20-1888, the Operating Plan for Cooperative Fire 
Protection agreement between the agencies 
 
Effective Date: 
07/01/2020 
 
Insurance: No 
 
When:        
 
Options: 
Yes 
 
 
Notes:        
 
Payment Due: 
NA 
 
Term Date:  
     
 
Department: 
Fire 
 
City of BC Contact: 
Will Gray 293-9228 
 
Project No.  NA 
 
181
                                  Agreement Information Form 
Contact Info: 
Tyler Hecht, Associate Fire Management Officer, 
Southern Nevada    Phone No. 702-715-6224 
4701 N. Torrey Pines Drive 
Las Vegas, NV 89130 
 
Notes/Comments: 
      
182
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
2020 
OPERATING PLAN 
for 
COOPERATIVE FIRE PROTECTION AGREEMENT 
between the 
 
BOULDER CITY, BOULDER CITY FIRE DEPARTMENT 
and 
USDI, BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT 
SOUTHERN NEVADA DISTRICT 
and 
USDI, NATIONAL PARK SERVICE 
LAKE MEAD NATIONAL RECREATION AREA 
 
This Operating Plan (OP) is entered into by and between Boulder City through Boulder City 
Department hereinafter referred to as the Department and the USDI, Bureau of Land 
Management, Southern Neavad District, hereinafter referred to as the BLM; United States 
Department of Interior, and United States Departement of Interior, National Park Serivce, Lake 
Mead National Recreation Area, hereinafter reffered to as NPS. Collectively, all will be referred 
to as Parties.  This OP becomes attached to and made part of the cooperative fire protection 
agreements listed above. 
The Parties agree to the following: 
 
A. PURPOSE: 
 
The purpose of this OP is to define operating procedures and responsibilities within the 
framework of the above referenced Cooperative Fire Protection Agreement. 
 
B. GENERAL PROVISIONS: 
 
The Department is primarily responsible for all hazard response, prevention, structure 
suppression and wildland fire suppression occurring to property within their jurisdictional 
boundaries.  These structures and lands protected by the Department are intermingled or adjacent 
to lands protected by BLM. 
 
The BLM has the responsibility for prevention, protection and suppression, including direct and 
indirect perimeter control, of wildland fires on federally administered lands, and on adjacent or 
intermingled State and private forested/range lands as identified through written agreement in the 
Cooperative Fire Protection Agreement between signatory agencies dated 6/XX/2020 .  The 
BLM will not assume responsibility for structure fire suppression and/or protection that is the 
legal jurisdictional of another entity (State, County, Local, Tribal or property holder).  The BLM 
183
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
is not responsible for fighting structure fires.  However, the BLM may assist in providing 
structure protection, but not structure suppression.  Such activities will be limited to the exterior 
of structures, and only when such actions can be accomplished safely and in accordance with 
established wildland fire operations standards. 
 
The mission and intent of this agreement is to provide for cooperation by the Parties in the 
wildland fire management (prevention, detection and suppression of wildland fires) and in all-
hazard emergency events, conduct support function activities as requested by other Parties, to the 
extent the provision of such support is properly authorized. 
 
1.  The mutual aid period for the purposes of this OP shall be up to 24 hours unless 
specified otherwise (i.e., cost share agreement). 
2. All assistance beyond the 24 hours shall be assistance-by-hire and will be billed 
retroactively for the full period from the time of initial dispatch. 
3. For the purpose of this OP, fire engines (all types), water tenders (all types) and initial 
attack overhead are understood by the Parties to be mutual aid resources.  All other 
resources, personnel and equipment are assistance by hire including personnel assigned to 
recognized incident management teams.  Aircraft and hand crews and their associated 
support costs are considered assistance by hire. 
4. On multi-jurisdictional incidents a cost share agreement shall be developed, documented 
and signed.  Incidents within the mutual aid period not utilizing assistance by hire 
resources do not require a cost share.  See Exhibit G for cost share agreement template. 
5. No Party to this agreement will be required to deplete its own fire protection resources, 
services and facilities to the detriment of its fire protection responsibilities. 
6. Participation of Department resources is encouraged on local, geographic and national 
incident management teams, as well as single resource assignments.  Payments of 
personnel will be in accordance with Exhibit E rates. 
 
All resources provided by Department for suppression activities on BLM jurisdiction fires during 
the “off season” will be considered assistance-by-hire.  This period is October 15 to April 15 
each year. 
 
For any “off season” federal fires to be considered for assistance-by-hire reimbursement, the 
Department must: 
 
• Contact the Las Vegas Interagency Communications Center immediately, and provide a 
verbal size-up of the incident upon arrival of the initial attack Incident Commander (IC). 
• 
Furnish the Protecting Party a written incident report within ten (10) days.  A sample fire 
report is included as Exhibit F. 
• Ordering of resources beyond the initial response will be coordinated with the BLM duty 
officer.  
 
All billings for fire assistance during this period of time will be billed directly to the BLM. 
 
C. AGENCY CROSS NOTIFICATION OF FIRES: 
184
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
Fires will be reported as follows: 
 
Fires occurring on or threatening lands inside the boundaries of the Department will be reported 
immediately to agency of jurisdiction dispatch center. 
 
Fires occurring on or threatening lands of federal ownership will be reported immediately to 
the Las Vegas Interagency Communications Center (LVICC). 
 
Initial size up report will be provided to the appropriate dispatch center as soon as possible. 
 
The initial fire report shall include, if available, the following information: 
1. Location (lat & long or street address with cross street) 
2. Present size (in acres) 
3. Type of fuel 
4. Rate of spread 
 
D. ANNUAL COORDINATION MEETING: 
 
A coordination meeting between the Department and the BLM will be held as needed annually 
by March 1.  This meeting will review the past year of cooperative assistance and revise the OP, 
as needed.  All exhibits will be reviewed, updated as needed, and attached to the OP as part of 
the annual review.  Parties to this agreement will communicate preseason to identify critical 
resources areas (i.e., critical wildlife habitat, etc.). 
 
Maps which identify each of the Parties’ jurisdictional boundaries will be exchanged and 
updated annually and provided during the coordination meeting.  This is critical in establishing 
an understanding of responsibilities, unprotected areas, overlap areas, and mutual aid areas.  
Exhibits A and B identify each of the Parties’ jurisdictional boundaries and shall become part of 
this OP.  It is preferred that maps be produced in a GIS format. 
 
E. COMMUNICATIONS/FREQUENCIES: 
 
Each Party to this agreement agrees to maintain up-to-date list of telephone numbers for each 
principal emergency contacts. 
 
Each agency that is signatory to this Operating Plan is permitted to use each other’s frequencies 
during the emergency activities or training to contact resources of the cooperators in conjunction 
with the communications plan for the incident.  The communications plan may be a formal 
document, as in the case of an incident command team deployment or it may be an informal 
verbal agreement made on the ground by the Incident Commander(s) and/or Agency 
Representative.  Use of frequencies is permitted in “narrowband” and VHF mode only.  Federal 
Communications Commission procedures will be followed when operating radio(s) on any 
Party’s frequency. 
 
185
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
When multi-agency or a rapidly expanding incident occurs, the use of VFIRE frequencies for the 
tactical channel is mandatory to ensure common communications on the fire ground. 
Weather warnings, emergency broadcasts, tactical changes etc. will be transmitted over the 
command frequency to all units on the scene. 
 
Pre-identified incident communication protocols will be established and followed (e.g., 
frequencies plans, points of contacts, and interoperable radio hardware). 
 
See Exhibit D for a current list of frequencies and repeater locations. 
 
F. OPERATIONS: 
 
Rapid dispatching of personnel and equipment to fires is primary to both Parties.  It is critical 
that dispatch organizations have clear direction and understanding of procedures.  It is equally 
important that initial attack resources understand their roles and responsibilities, and those of the 
other agencies.  It is highly recommended that all Parties to this document attend annual 
Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) or similar reviews.  Personnel shall be familiar with the 
following: 
 
1. When one Party requests assistance for purposes other than mutual aid or initial attack 
from the other, reimbursement may be provided.  Standards for qualifications, training, 
and physical fitness as set in the National Wildfire Coordinating Group (NWCG) PMS 
310-1 “Wildland Fire Qualification System Guide” or National Incident Management 
System (NIMS) Certification Standards are required.  At the time of the request, the 
Supporting Party will identify the person in charge of responding resources. 
 
a. During initial action, all agencies (federal, state, local and tribal) accept each 
other’s standards.  Once jurisdiction is clearly established, then the standards of 
the agency(s) with jurisdiction prevail. 
 
b. Prior to the fire season, BLM should meet with their state, local and tribal agency 
partners and jointly review the qualification/certification standards and Personal 
Protective Equipment (PPE)  that will apply to the use of local, non-federal 
firefighters during initial attack on fires on lands under the jurisdiction of a 
federal agency.  Each Party will advise the other of applicable cross training 
opportunities for personnel. 
 
2. Personal Protective Equipment:  All fire personnel assigned to fire line suppression duties 
on an uncontrolled wildfire incident will wear NWCG approved or equivalent appropriate 
PPE. 
 
Additional PPE as identified by local conditions, material safety data sheet (MSDS) or 
Job Hazard Analysis/Risk Assessment (JHA/RA) (i.e. specialized leg protection/chaps 
during chain saw use) may be required. 
 
186
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
3. Before fire suppression efforts begin all fire fighters will be briefed. 
 
4. The Parties agree to operate under the concept defined in the National Incident 
Management System (NIMS) including the Incident Command System (ICS).  Unified 
command should be used whenever multiple jurisdictions are involved, unless 
extraordinary circumstances dictate otherwise. 
 
5. The Incident Commander (IC) or unified command shall establish a command structure 
communications plan and incident objectives, identify and make hazards known, and 
name the incident (if necessary).  All resources on scene and arriving will have the 
incident name provided to them.  The Incident Commander will be identified as “Incident 
Command or IC”.  The IC shall inform the servicing dispatch center with the incident 
name, and provide to dispatch their name and agency position title (i.e., Elko Battalion 
35). 
 
6. The IC or designee will order and track all resources through a single point.  Once unified 
command is established, the interagency dispatch center will become the single point of 
ordering. 
 
7. It shall be the policy of all Parties to release a Supporting Party’s personnel and 
equipment from emergency duties as soon as practical and mutually agreed upon between 
the IC and the Supporting Party. 
 
8. Each Party will make available and familiarize their officers with the contents of this OP. 
 
9. Las Vegas Interagency Communication Ceter will coordinate the use of aircraft 
resources.  The Department may order air tanker, helicopter, or observation flights 
through the interagency dispatch center, but the operational phase will remain under the 
direction of the incident IC.  The Department will provide mission objectives, geographic 
coordination, and hazards in the area (power lines, houses, etc.).  Any aircraft not ordered 
by the Parties to this agreement is limited to operations on private lands, and incident 
personnel will not have any operational control.  It is imperative that Department who has 
non-federal aircraft responding inform the interagency dispatch center.  A review of 
aerial coordination procedures (e.g., frequencies, Fire Traffic Area (FTA)) will be part of 
the annual coordination meeting agenda.  The Federal Agencies will not pay for aircraft 
that are not approved for federal use.  All aviation resources and associated support 
ordered will be considered assistance-by-hire, and therefore always billable. 
 
a. Air Operations:  Wildland fire aviation includes a variety of aircraft and 
operations.  Helicopters are used to drop water, transport crews, reconnaissance, 
infrared, and deliver resources to the fire line.  Fixed-wing aircraft include 
smokejumper aircraft, air tactical platforms, Single Engine Airtankers (SEATs), 
large airtankers (LAT), and very large airtankers (VLAT). These aircraft play a 
critical role in supporting firefighters on the ground. 
 
187
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
b. Pilot and Aircraft Approval:  All pilots and aircraft involved with aviation 
suppression operations over Federal Lands will be approved and/or carded for 
their specific mission(s) by Office of Aircraft Services (OAS) or United States 
Forest Service (USFS). 
 
c. Boundary Issues:  The requirement for increased management and coordination is 
due to the possibility of two or more agencies/cooperators conducting 
simultaneous, uncoordinated aviation operations within those areas which would 
unknowingly put the responding aerial resources within close proximity to one 
another, placing aircraft and crews at risk.  Airspace boundary plans should be 
employed in areas where this occurs.  Any agency conducting aerial operations 
within a “neutral air” corridor or zone (ten mile width) will immediately notify 
the adjoining agency/cooperator of such operations.  This is accomplished to and 
from dispatch offices prior to the commencement of operations and when 
operations cease.  Agency aircraft will establish contact on the assigned air-to-air 
frequency.  Should contact not be made, the contact air-to-air frequency will be 
“Air Guard” 168.625 MHz (TX tone 110.9).  Examples of aviation operations 
include fire reconnaissance, fire suppression missions, special aviation projects, 
resource management flights, helicopter logging, etc. 
 
d. Airspace De-confliction:  Airspace de-confliction is a term used to describe the 
process of reducing the risk of a near mid-air collision or TFR intrusion by 
sharing information regarding flight activity with Department of Defense military 
units, general aviation and other agency aviation programs.  Airspace de-
confliction will occur for both emergency and non-emergency aviation activities 
by contacting the local federal dispatch center. 
 
e. Temporary Flight Restrictions (TFR):  In order to enhance safety during an 
incident or project, the FAA may be requested to issue a Notice to Airmen 
(NOTAM) to pilots; these could be either a Temporary Flight Restriction (TFR) 
or a NOTAM (L) or NOTAM (D). 
 
f. Fire Traffic Area (FTA):  The Incident Commander or designee will monitor the 
assigned Air to Ground frequency assigned to the incident. 
 
g. At no less than twelve nautical miles from the incident, all aircraft will establish 
radio communication with the incident before entering the Fire Traffic Area.  If 
positive radio communication is not established, aircraft must hold at seven 
nautical miles. 
 
10. All Parties will coordinate fire restrictions or closures due to weather or fire severity 
where practical.  
 
11. General Cooperative Activities:  All protection units will, to the extent possible, provide 
fire prevention programs, inspections, and enforcement as necessary to adequately 
188
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
address fire issues in their Direct Protection Areas/jurisdiction.  In addition, units are 
encouraged to undertake joint prevention activities in areas of mutual interest whenever 
practical. 
 
12. Information and Education:  
 
a. Joint Press Releases:  Parties should develop joint press releases on cooperative 
fire protection issues/incidents to ensure that the interests of all affected agencies 
are adequately addressed. 
b. Smokey Bear Program:  Parties should cooperate in the coordinated delivery of 
Smokey Bear program in direct protection areas. 
c. Local Education Program:  The use of interagency teams to conduct local 
educational programs is encouraged to facilitate improved public knowledge of 
the mission and responsibilities of all the cooperating agencies. 
d. Fire Prevention Signs:  Coordination and placement of fire prevention signs 
should be used in order to prevent duplication of effort or sending mixed 
messages.  This is especially important for fire danger rating signs. 
 
13. Cause and Origin Investigations: 
 
a. Each Party will be responsible for cause and origin investigations within the 
boundaries of their jurisdictional areas.  If multiple jurisdictions are affected by 
the same wildland fire, the jurisdiction in which the suspected origin is located 
will serve as the lead for the investigation.  Any Party may request assistance 
from Agencies outside the suspected origin jurisdiction. 
 
b. For multi-jurisdictional incidents the lead Agency must invite all Parties’ 
appropriate fire investigation personnel to work jointly with the lead Agency to 
determine the fire cause and origin, whether the fire was human caused, and if 
human caused whether it was the result of negligence or intentionally set. 
 
c. Where the cooperating agency is federal, appropriate federal law enforcement 
and/or fire investigation personnel will assist the lead agency in making those 
assessments. 
 
d. For all fire trespass/arson matters, cooperating agencies will provide fire 
investigation reports, cost figures and cost documentation to the lead agency. 
 
i. Costs include, but are not limited to, fire suppression, natural resource 
damages, emergency stabilization, and rehabilitation. 
 
ii. Cooperating agencies will provide an estimate of these costs to the lead 
agency within 60 days of the fire being declared out. 
 
189
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
14. When one Party to this Agreement takes initial action on a fire in another Agency’s 
jurisdiction, every effort will be made to protect the area containing the origin of the fire 
and protect evidence that may be pertinent to identifying the fire cause.  Information 
generated from investigation of the origin of the fire and other information concerning 
incendiary fires, etc. will be shared with all Parties to increase probability of prosecution 
and/or cost recovery. 
 
15. Wildland Urban Interface – The operational roles of the Federal Agencies as partners in 
the wildland urban interface are wildland firefighting, cooperative prevention and 
education.  Structural fire suppression is the responsibility of State, Local or Tribal 
governments. 
 
16. Federal Agency firefighters who encounter structure, vehicle, or landfill fires during 
normal wildland suppression duties, or who are dispatched to such fires due to significant 
threat to adjacent agency protected lands/resources, will not engage in direct suppression 
action.  Structure protection (not suppression) activities will be limited to exterior efforts, 
and only when such actions can be accomplished safely and in accordance with 
established wildland fire operations standards.  For the current Great Basin Community 
and Structure Fire Protection Guidelines see Exhibit H. 
 
17. Emergency Medical Responses – Federal Agency personnel are not funded, trained or 
equipped to respond to medical emergencies.  Under no circumstances will Federal 
Agency resources be dispatched for medical emergencies. 
 
G. SHARING FACILITIES: 
 
Administrative/Training:  Sharing of facilities for the purpose of training is beneficial for all 
agencies to this agreement; therefore there will be no charge for the use of Agencies’ facilities 
for training. 
 
Incidents:  Agencies to this agreement agree that the use of facilities will be free for the first 
twenty-four hours (24) for incident support.  After 24 hours facilities will be rented to the other 
agency.  Facilities such as fire stations and work centers are not designed to support the large 
numbers of personnel involved in incidents.  Bases and camps need to be established if the 
incident goes beyond initial attack and/or a large number of personnel is required by the incident. 
 
H. PROTECTION ORGANIZATION & RATES: 
 
See the Agency Rate Tables in Exhibit E. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
190
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
I. COST SHARE: 
 
Cost share agreements must be easily understood and correspond to agency cost 
accounting/tracking methods in order to facilitate the billing process.  Jurisdictional agencies 
should implement a method to track costs that occur outside of the cost share period (e.g., assign 
resources new incident order numbers and establish new agency-specific accounting codes). 
 
A cost share agreement will be developed on the basis of one or a combination of the following 
four criteria: 
 
1. Initial Attack Agreement  (mutual aid) 
2. Acres Burned 
3. You Order, You Pay (YOYP) 
a. A unified ordering point is required and agencies agree to who will order which 
resources. 
b. On-incident support costs may be split by the percentage of agency requested 
resources. 
c. Off-incident support costs are paid for by the ordering unit. 
4. Cost Apportionment 
 
Fire cost tracking and accountability (i.e. air tanker and helicopter drop numbers and location) 
should be established and maintained early during initial attack. 
 
An after-action fiscal review may be conducted at the request of any Party. 
 
Cost Shared Items:  The following is a list of items that are typically cost shared in multi-
jurisdiction incidents.  This list is not all-inclusive.  Costs associated with, and incurred by, 
incident generated resource orders are typically shared. 
 
a. Aircraft Costs - Aircraft (fixed and rotor wing) and associated retardant and personnel 
costs. 
b. Equipment Costs - Emergency equipment used to support the incident. 
c. Incident Cache Costs - Cache costs may include refurbish, replacement, resupply, and 
labor costs. 
d. Incident Rehabilitation Costs - Rehabilitation activities of assigned incident personnel to 
mitigate further damage to improvements and land occurring from direct suppression 
activity can be included in cost sharing, e.g., minor fence repair, dozer line, erosion 
control. 
e. Initial Attack Resource Costs - Initial attack resource costs are included in determining 
the cost-share percentages and in deriving actual incident costs. In a cost-share incident, 
the provisions in the Cooperative Agreement associated with this OP for initial attack 
assistance at no cost do not apply. 
f. Off-Incident Support Sites - Mobilization, demobilization, rest and recuperation sites, 
etc., usually serve multiple incidents and are typically not ordered for a specific incident. 
191
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
The incident cost share agreement usually will not address cost sharing of these sites. 
Incident agencies should establish separate cost share agreements for these items. 
g. On-Incident Support Costs - Costs incurred for services supplied within the incident, e.g., 
shower units, catering units, commissary units, cache supplies and materials. 
h. Personnel Costs - Costs of assigned incident personnel including the IMT, crews, casuals, 
etc. 
i. Transportation Costs - Costs associated with movement of resources to and from an 
incident. 
j. Administrative Surcharge (Indirect Charge) - The Parties to this agreement will not 
charge each other an Administrative Surcharge/Indirect Charge.  Resources obtained via 
external agreements which include an administrative surcharge are allowable. 
 
Non-Cost Shared Items: The following lists items that are typically not cost shared: 
 
a. Accountable Property - Accountable and/or sensitive property, as defined by each 
agency, that is purchased by the agency and becomes property of that agency. 
b. Administrative Overhead Costs - Costs of agency personnel, support, and services not 
directly assigned or ordered by an incident.  These include normal operating expenses 
such as basic utility costs, buildings and facilities rent, administrative support, and 
personnel.  These costs are usually agency-specific, unless addressed in master or cost 
share agreements. 
c. Claims Costs - Responsibility for tort claims or extraordinary settlement costs will be 
addressed through a separate agreement between agencies. 
d. Move Up and Cover Costs - Includes additional costs over and above base salary of 
“backfilling” agency personnel to meet agency-specific staffing requirements.  
e. Post-Incident Rehabilitation Costs - Costs incurred to rehabilitate burned lands, such as 
seeding, check dam construction, and archaeological mitigation. 
 
Final Cost Determination:  Costs will be determined by using agency financial records. 
 
Transfer of Responsibility Procedures:  When Incident Management Teams (IMTs) are rotated, 
the departing team must brief their counterparts on all cost sharing agreements and 
documentation to date, and provide copies of these documents.  If there is a change in the 
Agency Administrators or representatives the departing Agency Administrators shall brief and 
provide copies of any existing cost sharing agreements and documentation to the incoming 
Agency Administrators to ensure the incoming Agency Administrators have a clear 
understanding of all the decisions and agreements used to develop the final cost share 
percentages and conditions that will be used to generate the final cost share agreement. 
 
Wildland Fire Protection Program (WFFP).  If the Department is covered under a WFPP 
agreement with Nevada Division of Forestry (NDF) and the incident falls under that agreement, 
NDF will be a signatory Party on the cost share.  The Department is required to notify NDF Duty 
Officer of any wildland fire within their jurisdiction that may require a cost share agreement.  
NDF will assume an active role in the development of cost share agreements. 
 
192
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
J. COMPENSATION FOR SERVICES: 
 
This portion of the OP establishes standard payment rates and billing procedures for equipment 
and personnel used for the purpose of this agreement. 
 
It is understood that no Party is entering this plan to make a profit from assisting the other, but 
rather, developing a method of recovering legitimate expenses.  Every effort will be made by the 
Parties to minimize costs.  
 
1. Within Mutual Aid Period:  No billing will occur for expenses with the mutual aid period 
except for the resources identified as assistance-by-hire. 
 
2. Resources working beyond Mutual Aid Period:  The Supporting Agency will bill the 
Protecting Agency for actual costs incurred for assistance provided and identified as 
reimbursable.  Resources exceeding the mutual aid period will be billed retroactively for 
the full period from the time of initial dispatch. 
 
3. Incident Billing Documentation:  Federal, State and Local cooperators should receive an 
OF-288, Emergency Firefighter Time Report for each resource assigned to the incident.  
Resources are to ensure that OF-288s are complete and accurate prior to demobilization 
from the incident.  Incident agencies are not to submit OF-288s to the agency payment 
center on behalf of the federal (excluding Forest Service AD employees), State or Local 
cooperators.  (Note:  On smaller local incidents, an SF-261, Crew Time Report, signed by 
an incident supervisor will suffice in place of an OF-288.) 
 
OF-286, Emergency Equipment Use Invoice, shall not be completed by the incident 
agency for federal, state and local cooperator vehicles (including rental vehicles) nor 
should any type of equipment invoice be submitted to the Protecting Agency payment 
center on behalf of the federal, State or Local cooperators.  Supporting Agencies will bill 
the Protecting Agency for vehicle use based on work time recorded on the OF-288 using 
the guidelines below. 
 
It is recommended that Department resources utilize Exhibit I when checking in with 
Finance personnel at an incident to avoid confusion regarding which forms are required 
to be completed for Department resources. 
 
 
Non-Billable Items:  The following items are NOT considered billable by the Parties: 
 
a. Agency overhead personnel performing agency specific duties and not assigned to 
the incident 
b. Non-expendable accountable property 
c. Interest and indemnities payments 
d. Agency specific Burned Area Emergency Rehabilitation (BAER) beyond 
suppression damage rehab 
193
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 12 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
e. False Alarms with the exception of assistance by hire resources and their 
associated supporting costs  
f. Administrative Surcharge/Indirect Charges 
 
Billable and Shareable:  Associated Costs Not On Resources Orders – There are 
associated costs that State, Department and federal agencies incur in providing resources 
to an incident.  Personnel, equipment, supplies or services provided by a supporting 
agency and essential to filling the resource order, which are necessary and reasonable, 
shall be considered as reimbursable as Assistance-by-Hire.  While, on the surface, they 
are not ordered “by and for the incident,” they are necessary to mobilize ordered 
resources or acquire services for the incident and are valid charges (i.e. mobilization of 
crews, equipment contractors, etc.).  These associated costs that are a result of the 
incident are considered to be an added cost to the agency.  These activities may not be 
“documented” on a resource order and will be billed using agency specific financial 
system reports.  Examples include, but are not limited, to: 
 
a. Dispatchers 
b. Airbase Costs - Includes salaries, travel expenses, retardant and supplies 
associated with the airbase in support of the incident. 
c. Warehouse/Cache - Includes local and regional cache personnel and associated 
transportation costs when performing activities in support of the incident. 
d. Mobilization Centers - Includes personnel performing activities within a mob 
center in support of the incident.  These mobilization centers are established by 
agencies to support the incident. 
e. Travel Per Diem/Transportation Costs - Includes mileage and lodging/meals and 
incidental expenses incurred while enroute to/from the incident or not provided at 
the incident.  These expenses shall not exceed the published General Services 
Administration (GSA) allowable rates.  Exception:  Those instances where the 
GSA lodging rate (excluding room taxes) cannot be obtained shall be documented 
and copies of the documentation shall be provided with the billing invoice. 
f. Temporary Incident Payment Center Activity - Includes personnel performing 
activities in support of the incident, which may include salaries, travel expenses, 
supplies and temporary facility rental. 
g. Agency Support Cost Covered Under Specific Labor Agreements - Includes cost 
of lodging/per diem and related mileage to and from the incident. 
h. Personnel Backfill - Backfill coverage for shift firefighters assigned to fire 
stations is billable to the incident.  Reimbursement will not be provided for both 
the “backfill” resource and resources mobilized to an incident for the same time 
period (i.e., Only one type of resource may be billed per day – either the backfill 
resource or the incident resource.  Occasionally, more than one person may be 
required to fulfill an agency’s backfill shift requirement.  In those cases, no more 
than 24 hours per day will be billed for the backfill resources.). 
i. Invoice Preparation - Includes actual charges by agency staff for the preparation 
of incident billing documents/packages. 
j. Correction Officers - All time for State correction officers will be fully 
194
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 13 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
reimbursable.   Base pay and overtime is reimbursable if there is no back fill.  If 
the Department of Corrections back fills then only overtime for the correctional 
officer and backfill is reimbursable. 
k. Compensated Days off at End of Incident - It is agreed that employees of the 
Parties to this Agreement shall at all times be subject only to the laws, regulations, 
and rules governing their employment, regardless of their employing agency, and 
shall not be entitled to compensation or other benefits of any kind other than that 
specifically provided by the terms of their employment.  
 
4. Billing Submission: 
 
On fires where costs are incurred pursuant to the terms of this agreement, the Supporting 
Agency shall submit a bill or estimate for reimbursement as soon as possible, but not later 
than 180 days after the fire is declared out.  If final costs are not known at that time, an 
estimated amount will be provided to the Protecting Parties.  Contested items will be 
resolved by the Parties signatory to this Operating Plan.  If consensus cannot be reached, 
those items of concern will be elevated to the next higher level of management for 
resolution.  Payment shall be made to the Supporting Party within 90 days after receipt of 
the billing invoice. 
 
Billing deadlines set forth herein are intended to encourage prompt billing.  Failure to 
meet these timeframes shall not be construed as a release or waiver of claims for 
reimbursement against the other Party. 
 
Should additional costs be identified after a "final" billing has been issued, a 
supplemental bill may be issued if agreeable to applicable Parties. 
 
Federal Agency Billings:  
 
Submit bills to the Department whenever the Department is the protecting agency and 
billing is appropriate.  If the Department is covered under a WFPP agreement with 
Nevada Division of Forestry (NDF) and the incident falls under that agreement, billings 
will be submitted to NDF for payment. 
 
Boulder City Fire Department 
Will Gray, Fire Chief 
1101 Elm St 
Boulder City, NV 89005  
 
 
Department Billings:   
 
“Off-season” billing reimbursement requests for BLM fires will be sent directly to the 
BLM.  
 
195
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 14 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
a. Federal Jurisdictional Fires:  All billings for both in-state and out-of-state federal 
jurisdictional fires will be billed to the BLM District Office. 
 
United States Department of the Interior 
Bureau of Land Management 
Southern District Office 
Attention: Fire Management Officer 
4701 N. Torrey Pines Dr 
Las Vegas, Nevada 89130 
 
b. State Fires (Out of State):  Submit all billings for state fires outside the state of 
Nevada to the BLM District Office.  
 
 
5. Billing Content:  A separate bill will be submitted for each fire.  Bills will be 
identified by fire name, location, jurisdictional unit, and appropriate order number, and 
will be supported by adequate documentation and broken down by categories if 
required by a cost share agreement.  Billings for fire suppression assistance will not 
include administrative overhead or other costs not supported by a resource order or 
other supporting documentation.  Documentation in support of the billing will include: 
 
a. Invoice, including: 
i. Cooperator name, address, phone number, and agency financial contact. 
ii. Agreement number. 
iii. Incident name, incident number and financial accounting code. 
iv. Dates of the incident covered by the billing. 
b. Summary cost data for the amount being billed. Use costs reports generated by the 
agency to support the billing whenever possible. 
c. Copies of resource orders and other supporting documentation (i.e., WildCAD).  
Receipts should be in the form of photocopies. 
d. Copies of applicable cost share agreements. 
e. Cost share split report (if applicable) 
 
6. Payment Due Dates: All bills will have a payment due date 90 days after date of issuance. 
 
This OP is valid until replaced. 
 
K. AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES: 
By signature below, each Party certifies that the individuals listed in this document as 
representatives of the individual Parties are authorized to act in their respective areas for matters 
related to this instrument.  In witness whereof, the Parties hereto have executed this instrument 
as of the last date entered below.
196
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 15 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
 
  
Kiernan MaManus, Mayor 
Boulder City, NV  
 
 Date 
 
  
Alfonso Noyola, City Manager 
Boulder City, NV   
 
 Date 
Approved as to Form 
 
 
 
  
Steven L. Morris, City Attorney 
 Date 
 
 
 
Gera Ashton , Acting District Manager 
USDI, Bureau of Land Management 
Southern Nevada District 
 Date 
 
 
 
  
Tyler Hecht , District Fire Management Officer 
USDI, Bureau of Land Management 
Southern Nevada District 
 
 Date 
 
 
 
 
  
Margaret L Goodro, Park Superintendent  
USDI, National Park Service 
Lake Mead National Recreation Area  
 Date 
 
 
 
John Foley, Fire Management Officer  
USDI, National Park Service  
Lake Mead National Recreation Area  
 
 
 Date 
 
 
 
197
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 16 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
 
 
 
 
The authority and format of this instrument have been reviewed and approved for 
signature. 
 
 
 
 
  
DAVID APPOLD, Supervisory Procurement Analyst 
USDI, Bureau of Land Management 
Nevada State Office 
 Date 
 
 
 
 
  
Greg Hauburger, Chief of Acquisitions  
USDI, National Park Service 
Contracting  
 Date 
 
 
 
198
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 17 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
EXHIBIT A 
MAP 
WILDLAND FIRE PROTECTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR URBAN AREAS 
 
Boulder City Map  
 
 
 
 
 
199
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 18 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
EXHIBIT B 
MAP 
WILDLAND FIRE PROTECTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR FEDERAL LANDS 
 
200
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 19 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
EXHIBIT C 
LIST 
EMERGENCY CONTACT PERSONNEL  
 
Name 
Title 
Office 
Cell 
Fax 
Will Gray 
Fire Chief 
702-293-9228 
702-930-4973 
 
Vacant 
Deputy Fire Chief (OPS) 
 
 
 
Duty Captain 
Duty Captain 
 
702-759-9540 
 
Dispatch 
 
702-293-0550 
 
 
 
Las Vegas Interagency Communications Center 
 
Name 
Title 
Office 
Cell 
Fax 
Gary Moberly  
Center Manager 
702-515-5305 
702-358-1065 
702-515-5310 
Jeff Jasberg 
Assistant  Center 
Manager 
702-515-5306 
702-683-8427 
702-646-1996 
 
Southern Nevada District, Bureau of Land Management 
Name 
Title 
Office 
Cell 
Fax 
Tyler Hecht  
Fire Mgmt Officer 
702-515-5131 
702-715-6224 
702-515-5075 
Gera Ashton   
 District Manager 
702-515-5220 
480-202-3428 
702-515-5075 
 
 
 
Lake Mead National Recreation Area, National Park Service 
Name 
Title 
Office 
Cell 
Fax 
John Foley 
Fire Management Officer 
(702) 293-8829 
(702) 373-5531 
(702) 293-8757 
Tiege Downs 
Asst Fire Mgmt Officer 
(702) 293-8832 
(702) 278-1872 
(702) 293 8757 
Vacant 
Superintendent 
(702) 293-8922 
 
 
Patrick Gubbins 
Assistant Superintendent 
(702) 293-8922 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
201
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 20 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
EXHIBIT D 
 
COMMUNICATION 
Channel 
Transmit 
TX: 
Tone 
Receive 
RX: 
Tone 
Channel 
Transmit 
TX: Tone 
Receive 
RX: Tone 
BLM Local 
173.7625 
114.8
  
173.7625 
114.8 
NDF Main  
158.895 
  
158.895 
  
BLM 
Christmas 
Tree 
Repeater 
164.4750 
151.4 
173.7625 
 114.8 
NDF Red 
159.345 
  
159.345 
  
BLM 
Hayford 
Repeater 
164.4750 
110.9 
173.7625 
 114.8 
National Flight 
Following 
168.650 
110.9 
168.650 
110.9 
BLM West 
Mountain 
Repeater 
164.4750 
156.7 
173.7625 
 114.8 
Air Guard 
(Contact/Safety
) 
168.625 
110.9 
168.625 
  
BLM Potosi 
Repeater 
164.4750 
136.5 
173.7625 
 114.8 
Air to Air 
(Primary Las 
Vegas) 
123.675 
  
123.675 
  
BLM Red 
Rock 
Repeater 
166.2375 
114.8 
172.525 
114.8 
Air to Air 
(Secondary Las 
Vegas) 
120.525 
  
120.525 
  
BLM Scene 
of Action 
(SOA) 
171.6750 
114.8 
171.675 
114.8 
Air to Ground 
(Primary Las 
Vegas) AG 23 
166.762
5 
  
166.762
5 
  
BLM Split 
Ridge 
Repeater 
164.4750 
167.9 
173.0500 
114.8 
Air to Ground 
(Secondary Las 
Vegas) AG 08 
166.875 
  
166.875 
  
BLM Virgin 
Peak 
Repeater 
164.4750 
123.0 
173.7625 
 114.8 
SEAT Bases 
(Mesquite & 
Jean) 
123.975 
  
123.975 
  
BLM Wilson 
Repeater 
164.4750 
146.2 
173.7625 
114.8  
Battle Mountain 
(Air to Air) 
126.075 
  
126.075 
  
USFS Mt. 
Charleston 
Repeater 
170.4750 
156.7 
169.8750 
110.9 
Elko (Air to Air) 
119.175 
  
119.175 
  
USFS Potosi 
Repeater 
170.4750 
123.0 
169.8750 
110.9 
Ely (Air to Air) 
128.425 
  
128.425 
  
USFS Angel 
Repeater 
170.4750 
146.2 
169.8750 
110.9 
Sierra Front (Air 
to Air) 
120.975 
  
120.975 
  
USFS Crew 
Net   
169.9750 
  
169.9750 
  
Winnemucca 
(Air to Air) 
127.225 
  
127.225 
  
USFS TEMP 
REPEATER 
(Portable)          
170.4750 
136.5 
169.8750 
110.9 
  
  
  
  
  
USFS SOA 
168.7750 
  
168.7750 
  
* Extra Air to Air Frequencies must be ordered through GBCC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
202
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 21 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
EXHIBIT D cont 
REPEATER SITE MAP 
 
 
 
203
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 22 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
Boulder City Frequencies  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
204
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 23 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
EXHIBIT E 
AGENCY RATE TABLES 
 
Rates will be billed based on actual costs and may be different than the rate quoted in this 
document. 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon demobilization from an incident, personnel shall be provided an approved and signed 
Emergency Firefighter Time Report (OF-288).  On smaller incidents, a Crew Time Report (SF-
261), signed by the incident supervisor shall suffice.  No equipment invoice should be provided 
at the incident.  See Exhibit I.  Exhibit I should be presented to the incident upon check in. 
 
Vehicles and equipment obtained under the Federal Excess Property Program (FEPP) will only 
be reimbursed for maintenance and operating costs. 
 
Portal to portal pay provisions will be acceptable when District/Department personnel have been 
designated entitlement to portal to portal pay by their home agency. 
 
Equipment is not included in portal to portal pay provisions.  Equipment paid on an hourly basis 
per the rate schedule will be reimbursed for actual hours of work performed by the operator.  
Mileage will be reimbursed per the rate schedule where applicable.  Federal, State and local 
agency equipment rates listed in the rate schedule are considered “wet” and operating costs (such 
as fuel) should be factored into the rate schedule.  Fuel, oil and other operating supplies provided 
at the incident are billable by the incident agency.  Operating supplies for rental vehicles are 
reimbursable and may be billed to the incident agency. 
 
 
FEDERAL PERSONNEL & EQUIPMENT RATES 
 
Rates based on actual cost to government personnel rates for fiscal year 2017. 
 
Personnel 
Firefighters 
GS-3 through GS-5 
$20.96 - $27.11* 
Engine Operators 
GS-5 through GS-6 
$27.11 - $34.65* 
Engine Captains 
GS-7 
$35.88* 
Battalion Chiefs 
GS-8 through GS-9 
$42.72 - $47.10* 
Fire Staff IC3 
GS-11 through GS-12 
$49.70 - $59.57* 
Ramp Managers 
GS-5 
$27.11* 
Tanker Base Managers 
GS-7 through GS-9 
$35.88 - $47.10* 
Air Attack Manager 
GS-9 
$47.10* 
 
205
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 24 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Overtime rates are paid at time and half 
 
Equipment 
 
Aviation 
Rates based on actual cost to government and may be different than the rates quoted in this document. 
 
Type I Helicopter 
$7,500.00/flight hour 
Type II Helicopter 
$1,750.00 - $3,500.00/hour (depending upon model) 
Type III Helicopter 
$750.00 - $2,500.00/hour (depending upon model) 
Support Vehicles 
$3.00/service miles 
Single Engine Air Tanker 
$2,650.00 to $3,500.00/hour (depending on call when 
needed contract) 
Heavy Air Tanker 
$4,500.00 to $9,500.00/flight hour 
Heavy Air Tanker (Next Generation) 
$10,000.00 to $11,000.00/flight hour 
CalFire Air Tanker 
$3,000.00 to $3,500.00/flight hour 
Air Attack 
$750.00 to 1,500.00/flight hour 
Aerial Supervision Module 
$750.00 to $1,500.00/flight hour 
 
Retardant 
$3.50/gallon 
Single Engine Attack 
800 gallon load - $2,800.00 
P2V 
2,400 gallon load - $8,400.00 
B3 
3,000 gallon load - $10,500.00 
 
Cost per gallon of retardant will drop after 100,000 gallon; 200,000 gallon; 300,000. 
 
 
 
 
206
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 25 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
Boulder City Billing Rate Table  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Position 
Hourly 
Total with Benefits 
Firefighter 
$31.99 
$55.42 
Engineer 
$35.20 
$60.94 
Captain 
$35.55 
$65.08 
Deputy Chief 
$56.73 
$88.15 
Fire Chief 
$67.32 
$104.53 
 
 
 
Type I Engine 
$260/hour plus staffing 
 
207
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 26 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
EXHIBIT F 
SAMPLE FIRE REPORT 
 
FINAL FIRE INFORMATION 
*If unknown, to be filled out by dispatch or authorized signatory*  
 
Fire Code:____________________     *FIRE TYPE:  1-1       1-2       1-3       1-5       1-6       2-1       2-6       3-7 
 
CAUSE (Circle One): 
1)  Lightning                            
2)  Camp Fire                          
3)  Smoking                             
4)  Debris Burning                            
5)  Arson                                             
6)  Equipment Use                            
7)  Railroads 
8)  Children 
9)  Other  
 
*Reimbursable?  
 Yes         
 No 
 
*ACRES BURNED BY OWNERSHIP: 
1) BLM 
2) BIA 
3) NPS 
4) FWS 
5) USFS 
6) Private 
7) State/County 
8) Other 
 
Ownership at Point of Origin:  
 BLM   
 BIA   
 NPS   
 FWS   
 USFS  
 Private  
 State  
 County/City  
 Other 
 
Point of Origin Latitude and Longitude in NAD 83                                 
 
Latitude: Deg._____________ Min._________ Sec.________ Longitude:  Deg._____________ Min._________ Sec._________ 
 
Was fire 10 acres or more? 
 Yes       
 No      Was fire Mapped and put into GIS?   
 Yes     
 No 
 
*IA RESOURCES DISPATCHED: 
Date:                                  
Time:                                           Acres:________________                                      
CONTAINMENT: 
Date:                                  
Time:                                           Acres:________________                                      
CONTROL: 
Date:                                  
Time:                                           Acres:________________                                      
OUT: 
Date:                                  
Time:  ________________                                                                             
 
TOPOGRAPHY (Point of Origin): 
1)  Ridgetop                           4)  Upper 1/3 of slope                       7)  Valley Bottom 
2)  Saddle                               5)  Middle 1/3 of slope                      8)  Mesa/Plateau 
3)  Flat or Rolling                  6)  Lower 1/3 of slope                        9)  Canyon Bottom 
ASPECT  (Point of Origin): 
0)  Flat                      2)  NE                      4)  SE                      6)  SW                     8)   NW 
1)  North                   3)  East                    5)  South                 7)  West                   9)  Ridgetop 
SLOPE  (Point of Origin): 
1)  0 - 25 %             2)  26 - 40 %             3)  41 - 55 %             4)  56 - 75 %             5)  76 + % 
ELEVATION  (Point of Origin): 
0)  0 - 500'               2)  1501 - 2500'       4)  3501 - 4500'          6)  5501 - 6500'        8)  7501 - 8500' 
1)  501 - 1500'         3)  2501 - 3500'       5)  4501 - 5500'          7)  6501 - 7500'        9) 8501 + 
PREDOMINANT FUEL MODEL (Circle one): 
1) Grass                                                      5) Brush                                                   9)   Hardwood (Aspen/Poplar) 
2) Timber w/ Grass Understory             8) Pinion/Juniper (PJ)/Timber            12)  Logging Slash 
 
 Wildland   
          Wildland/Urban Interface   
          Structures Burned or Destroyed:________ 
Did the fire intersect a fuels treatment?   YES  ☐
☐
☐
☐  
 
NO ☐
☐
☐
☐ 
 
MAYBE ☐
☐
☐
☐ 
If Yes or Maybe, Has the local district Fuels Specialist been notified?     Yes  ☐
☐
☐
☐         NO  ☐
☐
☐
☐ 
 IC PRINTED NAME:  _________________________________________________________________________ 
      
               SIGNATURE:  _________________________________________________________________________ 
                                                                                            
                           DATE:  _________________________________________________________________________ 
 
        AUTHORIZED BY:  _________________________________________________________________________    
                                                                                          
                            DATE:  _________________________________________________________________________ 
 
208
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 27 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
EXHIBIT F 
SAMPLE FIRE REPORT 
 
 
FIRE REPORT NARRATIVE:  
Give a brief description of the suppression efforts.  Include Strategy, Tactics, and   Concerns / Problems.  
Document any major decisions/observations/problems.  Include if effectiveness details of fuel treatments if 
applicable. Specify if any T&E species (ex. Sage Grouse) habitat was threatened and include 
strategies/tactics used for protection. Attach a map if requested. 
 
 
 
209
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 28 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT G 
COST SHARE AGREEMENT 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL FIRE SUPPRESSION AND COST SHARE AGREEMENT 
 
 
The purpose of this agreement is to provide for a coordinated cooperative fire suppression operation on this fire and 
to describe the cost divisions.  This agreement is a supplement to the Master Cooperative Wildland Fire  
Management Agreement or Local Agreement between the Agencies listed. # 
 
 
1. 
Fire Name:  
 
 
 
      Origin Date   
 
       Time  
 
2. 
Origin: Township 
 
 
Range  
 
Section 
 
 
 
Latitude  
 
  Longitude 
 
         (Deg. Min. Sec) 
 
3. 
Estimated Size( Acres) 
 
        at the time of this agreement. 
 
4. 
Agency   
                 Fire #   
 
                Accounting Code 
 
5. 
Agency   
                 Fire #   
 
                Accounting Code 
 
6. 
Agency   
                 Fire #   
 
                Accounting Code 
 
7. 
Agency   
                 Fire #   
 
                Accounting Code 
 
8. 
Agency   
                 Fire #   
 
                Accounting Code 
 
 
9. 
This agreement becomes effective on:   
           at                         and remains in effect until amended or 
terminated. 
10. 
Overall direction of this incident will be by              Unified,   or by             Single Command structure.   
 
 
 
 
 
POSITION 
 
 
210
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 29 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NAME(s) 
AGENCY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operations 
 
 
    
 
 
 
11. Suppression action will be subject to the following special conditions and land management considerations:  
 
 
 
 
 
12. Geographic responsibility (if appropriate) by Agency is defined as follows: 
 
Agency  
 
 
Geographic Responsibility  
 
Agency  
 
 
Geographic Responsibility  
 
Agency  
 
 
Geographic Responsibility  
 
Agency  
 
 
Geographic Responsibility  
 
13. 
The Agency responsible for structural protection will be: 
 (normally local, State, Tribal Agency) 
 
14. 
Special operational conditions agreed to (include as appropriate Air operations, base camp, food service, fire 
investigation, security, etc.)  List cost share information in Item #11: 
 
  
Incident Commander 
 
Agency Administrator  
Representative 
 
 
Liaison 
 
 
Finance 
 
 
211
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 30 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15. Fire Suppression COSTS will be divided between Agencies as described: 
Cost Centers: 
Agency: 
Agency: 
Agency: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. Other conditions relative to this agreement (Notifications, incident information, etc.): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Agency 
 
Agency 
 
Agency 
 
NDF (WFPP Concurrence) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title/Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title/Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title/Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title/Date 
Cooperator _____does _____does not have a WFPP agreement in place with NDF.  If a 
WFPP is in place, NDF will be the payment agency on behalf of the cooperator. 
212
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 31 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
 
List of Attachments (if any):   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT H 
 
 
COMMUNITY AND STRUCTURE FIRE 
PROTECTION 
Guidelines for the Great Basin 2014 
 
Background 
Protection of structures and communities is a shared partnership between the home and 
landowners and their fire agencies. Structure and community protection is high risk and a 
large cost center for all fire agencies. Clarification on what, how and where we will 
accomplish our structure protection roles and responsibilities must be identified. There needs 
to be a common expectation among all agencies and the public on how structure protection 
will be handled within the Great Basin. 
 
With the increased growth in the wildland urban interface, fire agencies do not have the 
capability to protect all structures. The goal is to support communities and structures that can 
survive the effects of a wildland fire without intervention. 
 
All fire agencies have primary responsibility for fire suppression within their respective 
protection areas. A strong initial attack commensurate with risk is the primary objective on 
all wildfires managed for suppression objectives. Fire agencies have a responsibility to 
attempt to prevent a wildland fire from spreading into areas where there are structures, and to 
assist local fire agencies in protecting communities and structures from the advancing 
wildland fire. 
 
Leaders Intent 
Our first and foremost intent is to keep our firefighters and the public safe. Secondly, once 
that safety can be ensured, then we will aggressively work toward keeping the wildland fire 
 
213
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 32 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
away from structures and communities. Our strategies and tactics will be based on that intent. 
Protecting structures from fire will not be possible in every situation. Risk to firefighters, 
fire behavior and availability of resources will dictate the strategies that will be used. 
 
When there is a need to engage in structure protection, we will ensure that we are taking safe, 
appropriate, and reasonable tactical actions for which we are trained and equipped. Those 
actions will be cost effective. State and federal agencies will limit the use of tactics such as 
gelling, wrapping, and extensive hazardous fuels modification. 
 
Unified Efforts 
Fire agencies may have a shared responsibility for wildland fire and structure protection 
within the scope of their state laws, agreements and operating plans. Agency Administrators 
will discuss with their partners roles and responsibilities, what capabilities each party has, 
how the parties will interface with each other, and how responsibilities for costs will be 
addressed. Agency Administrators will provide leaders intent for structure fire protection. 
Incident management organizations will engage local government agencies (fire 
District/Departments, law enforcement, disaster services, etc.) in the planning of strategies 
and tactics for community and structure protection. 
 
There are areas in the Great Basin where there is no local fire agency. Through established 
agreements and authorities, the wildland fire protection agencies may have the responsibility 
to protect structures from wildland fire. Landowners have the responsibility to determine 
whether there is a local fire agency that provides structure fire protection. 
 
It is important for GBCG members to: 
• Partner with communities, home and landowners to identify what actions can be taken 
to mitigate potential wildland urban interface losses, and identify financial and 
technical assistance opportunities. 
• Identify how the parties will work together when the wildland fire impacts another’s 
protection or jurisdictional responsibility. 
• Establish agreements and/or local operating plans to identify roles and responsibilities 
prior to the wildland fire. 
 
Capabilities 
Wildland fire agencies have no capability or responsibility to do structure fire suppression. 
Some local fire agencies may have limited capability within their own areas of jurisdiction to 
respond to a wildland fire. It is important to understand what capability they do have and if 
they have options to reach out to others such as mutual aid, to enhance that capability. 
 
Definitions 
The following are defined: 
 
Wildland Fire Protection: Protecting natural resources and municipal watersheds from damage 
from any fire that occurs in the wildland. State, tribal and federal forestry or land management 
214
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 33 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
and some local government agencies normally provide wildland fire protection. 
 
Structure Protection: Protecting a structure from the threat of damage from an advancing 
wildland fire. This involves the use of standard wildland protection tactics, control methods, 
and equipment, including fire control lines and the extinguishment of spot fires near or on 
the structure. The protection can be provided by both the rural and/or local government fire 
District/Department and wildland fire protection agencies. 
 
Structure Fire Suppression: Interior or exterior actions taken to suppress and extinguish a 
burning structure or improvement associated with standard fire protection equipment and 
training. This is the responsibility of local government entities; however there are areas 
where there is no structural fire agency in place. 
 
This supersedes any prior Community and Structure Fire Protection guidelines developed by 
NRCG or GBCG. 
 
 
215
 
BLM Agreement No. 
 
Fire Protection District/Department Agreement No. 
20-1888 
 
 
 
Page 34 of 34  
Rev. 03/07/19 
EXHIBIT I 
NOTICE TO INCIDENT FINANCE PERSONNEL 
 
 
BILLING DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS FOR 
NEVADA COOPERATOR PERSONNEL/EQUIPMENT 
 
The Boulder City Fire Department has an existing Agreement and Operating Plan with 
the Southern Nevada District (BLM).  Per those documents cooperators are only required 
to report hours of work for personnel.  Equipment costs will be reimbursed to the 
cooperator based on the hours/days worked by the operators. 
 
COOPERATOR PERSONNEL 
Personnel will provide to Finance approved Crew Time Reports.  Please process CTRs 
per normal business rules.  Provide the personnel with completed and signed OF-288s 
upon their demobilization from your incident. 
 
COOPERATOR EQUIPMENT 
DO NOT complete or process OF-286s for cooperator equipment.  Past issuance of OF-
286s has resulted in duplicate payments for the cooperator. 
 
DO NOT submit any cooperator documentation directly to an agency payment center. 
 
If you have any questions regarding this information, please contact: 
 
COOPERATOR 
Boulder City Fire Department 
Will Gray, Fire Chief 
wgray@bcnv.org 
(702-293-9228-office / 702-930-4973 - cell)  
 
BLM 
NV State Office 
Brenda DeBerg, State Incident Business Specialist 
bdeberg@blm.gov 
775-861-6574 (work); 775-722-7055 (cell) 
216
R7113 Bicycle Lane RTC Funding Agmt
SUBJECT:
For possible action: Resolution No. 7113, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City,
approving Agreement No. 20-1889 between the City of Boulder City and the Regional
Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada to provide project funding for the Bicycle Path
Asphalt Paving for the Hemenway Watershed Phase IIB, B.C. Project No. 09-0785-DR(2), and
amending both the revenues and expenditures of the Fiscal Year 2019-2020 capital budget 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
ATTACHMENTS:
Description
Type
Item 3 Staff Report
Cover Memo
Resolution No. 7113
Cover Memo
Agreement Information Form
Cover Memo
Agreement No. 20-1889
Cover Memo
217
City Council Meeting 
June 9, 2020 
Item No. 3 
 
Staff Report 
 
 
TO: 
Alfonso Noyola, City Manager  
 
FROM: 
Keegan Littrell, P.E., Public Works Director 
 
DATE: 
June 9, 2020 
 
SUBJECT:  For possible action: Resolution No. 7113, a resolution of 
the City Council of Boulder City, approving Agreement No. 20-1889 
between the City of Boulder City and the Regional Transportation 
Commission of Southern Nevada to provide project funding for the 
Bicycle Path Asphalt Paving for the Hemenway Watershed Phase IIB, 
B.C. Project No. 09-0785-DR(2), and amending both the revenues and 
expenditures of the Fiscal Year 2019-2020 capital budget  
 
Business Impact Statement:  This action will not have a significant 
economic impact on business and will not directly restrict the 
formation, operation, or expansion of a business. 
 
Action Requested:  That the City Council approve Resolution No. 
7113, approving Agreement No. 20-1889 between the City of Boulder 
City and the Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada 
to provide project funding for the Bicycle Path Asphalt Paving for the 
Hemenway Watershed Phase IIB, B.C. Project No. 09-0785-DR(2), 
and amending both the revenues and expenditures of the Fiscal Year 
2019-2020 capital budget. 
 
Overview: 
 
• The Clark County Regional Flood Control District (CCRFCD) has 
funded the design and construction of the Hemenway Phase II 
project.  
• Design plans included a bicycle path along the Hemenway flood 
control channel.  
• The Regional Transportation Commission (RTC) has agreed to 
fund the construction of the bicycle path.  
 
 
BOULDER CITY 
CITY COUNCIL 
 
MAYOR 
KIERNAN MCMANUS 
 
COUNCIL MEMBERS: 
JAMES HOWARD ADAMS 
CLAUDIA M. BRIDGES 
TRACY FOLDA 
JUDITH A. HOSKINS 
 
◄ ● ► 
 
MEETING LOCATION: 
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBER 
401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NV 89005 
 
MAILING ADDRESS: 
401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NV 89005 
 
WEBPAGE:  
WWW.BCNV.ORG 
 
◄ ● ► 
 
CITY MANAGER: 
ALFONSO NOYOLA, ICMA-CM 
 
CITY ATTORNEY: 
STEVEN L. MORRIS, ESQ 
 
CITY CLERK: 
LORENE KRUMM, MMC, CPO 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DIRECTOR: 
BRYCE BOLDT 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR: 
MICHAEL MAYS, AICP 
 
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: 
KEEGAN LITTRELL, P.E. 
 
UTILITIES DIRECTOR: 
DENNIS PORTER, P.E. 
 
POLICE CHIEF: 
TIM SHEA 
 
FIRE CHIEF: 
WILLIAM GRAY, CFO 
 
FINANCE DIRECTOR: 
DIANE PELLETIER, CPA 
 
PARKS & RECREATION DIRECTOR 
ROGER HALL 
 
218
• Asphalt pavement typically has a 20-year life but continued maintenance will 
prolong that and overall, save money. Maintenance for this project would be cycled 
into the annual maintenance program as determined by the pavement condition 
index for the City and will be funded through the RTC. 
 
Background Information: The design plans for the Hemenway Watershed Phase IIB 
project include the construction of a bicycle path along the flood control channel in order 
to encourage bicyclist to ride on the path instead of in the channel. However, the 
CCRFCD does not cover funding for construction of the bicycle path. Staff reached out 
to the RTC to secure funding for construction and the RTC has agreed to allocate 
funding from their Motor Vehicle Fuel Tax Direct Distribution Funds. The location of the 
bicycle path is along Boulder City Parkway, from the River Mountain Trailhead Parking 
lot and Pacifica Way.  
 
Per the terms of the agreements, the City is responsible for the design, inspection, 
construction or contract administration of this project utilizing either City staff or 
consultants contracted by the City. The RTC is going to provide funding for the projects 
from their Motor Vehicle Fuel Tax Direct Distribution Funds. The City will be responsible 
for maintaining the facilities to protect the improvements at its cost. The project is to be 
completed to the satisfaction of the RTC prior to the applicable completion date of June 
30, 2022. If it becomes necessary to request an increase in provided funding, a written 
request shall be made to the RTC and a supplement to this agreement may then be 
executed.  
 
Financial: 
 
Revenue – RTC 
 
Bicycle Path Asphalt Paving 
$250,000 
 
Boulder City Strategic Plan Goal: Goal B, invest in infrastructure and prioritize CIP 
projects while maximizing available funds. Public Works Department, in partnership with 
the RTC, ensures compliance with this goal with the Bicycle Path Asphalt Paving 
project. 
 
Department Recommendation:  The Public Works Department respectfully requests that 
the City Council approve Resolution No. 7113, approving Agreement No. 20-1889 
between the City of Boulder City and the Regional Transportation Commission of 
Southern Nevada to provide project funding for the Bicycle Path Asphalt Paving for the 
Hemenway Watershed Phase IIB, B.C. Project No. 09-0785-DR(2), and amending both 
the revenues and expenditures of the Fiscal Year 2019-2020 capital budget. 
 
Attachment: 
Resolution No. 7113 
Agreement Information Form 
219
Agreement No. 20-1889 
 
220
 
RESOLUTION NO. 7113         
 
 
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF BOULDER CITY, NEVADA, APPROVING 
AGREEMENT NO. 20-1889 BETWEEN THE CITY OF BOULDER CITY AND THE 
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION OF SOUTHERN NEVADA TO 
PROVIDE PROJECT FUNDING FOR THE BICYCLE PATH ASPHALT PAVING FOR 
THE HEMENWAY WATERSHED PHASE IIB, B.C. PROJECT NO. 09-0785-DR(2), AND 
AMENDING BOTH THE REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES OF THE FISCAL YEAR 
2019-2020 CAPITAL BUDGET 
 
 
WHEREAS, Agreement No. 20-1889 with the Regional Transportation Commission of 
Southern Nevada (RTC) will provide funding to construct a bicycle path 
along Boulder City Parkway, from the River Mountain Trailhead Parking lot 
and Pacifica Way as part of the Hemenway Watershed Phase IIB, B.C. 
Project No. 09-0785-DR(2); and 
 
WHEREAS, this agreement was approved by the RTC on May 21, 2020; and 
 
WHEREAS, utilizing an outside funding source for the bicycle path construction provides 
the City with a cost effective way to maintain and improve transportation 
system infrastructure; and 
 
WHEREAS, funding for this project with come from the RTC’s Motor Vehicle Fuel Tax 
Direct Distribution Funds. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that City Council approves Agreement No 20-
1889 between the City of Boulder City and the Regional Transportation Commission of 
Southern Nevada to provide project funding for the Bicycle Path Asphalt Paving for the 
Hemenway Watershed Phase IIB, B.C. Project No. 09-0785-DR(2); and  
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that City Council amend both revenues and expenditures 
in the amount of $250,000 for the Fiscal Year 2019-20 capital budget. 
 
 
DATED and APPROVED this 9th day of June, 2020. 
 
 
__________________________ 
Kiernan McManus, Mayor 
 
ATTEST: 
 
______________________________ 
Lorene Krumm, City Clerk 
221
                                  Agreement Information Form 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Council Date: 
June 9, 2020 
 
Resolution/Ordinance #: 
7113 
 
Agreement/Amendment No.: 20-1889 
 
Type of Agreement: 
Interlocal 
 
Description: 
Bicycle Path Asphalt Paving RTC Funding Agreement 
 
Effective Date: 
      
 
Insurance: Please select 
 
When:        
 
Options: 
Please select 
 
 
Notes:        
 
Payment Due: 
$250,000 
 
Term Date:  
June 30, 2022 
 
Department: 
Public Works 
 
City of BC Contact: 
Keegan Littrell, P.E., Public Works Director 
 
Project No.  09-0785-DR(2) 
 
Contact Info: 
Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada 
                            600 Grand Centeral Parkway 
                            Las Vegas, NV  89106 
                            702-676-1500 
 
 
Notes/Comments: 
      
222
Contract #1186 
 
INTERLOCAL CONTRACT 
BICYCLE PATH ASPHALT PAVING:  
FISCAL YEAR 2020 CITY OF BOULDER CITY 
 
 
THIS INTERLOCAL CONTRACT is made and entered into this 21ST day of  
May 2020, by and between the City of Boulder City, a municipal corporation, hereinafter referred 
to as “CITY” and the Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada, hereinafter 
referred to as “RTC.” 
 
 
W I T N E S S E T H 
 
 
WHEREAS, the CITY intends to construct and provide construction management for  
Bicycle Path Asphalt Paving: Fiscal Year 2020 City of Boulder City hereinafter referred to as 
“PROJECT,” located wholly within the City of Boulder City; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, Nevada Revised Statue (NRS) Chapter 277.180 authorizes any one or more 
public agencies to contract with any one or more other public agencies to perform any 
governmental services, activity or undertaking which any of the public agencies entering into the 
agreement is authorized by law to perform and refers to such as an interlocal contract; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the CITY agrees to conform to the current RTC Policies and Procedures, as 
amended and incorporated herein by reference; and 
 
WHEREAS, the CITY is requesting funds to commence the engineering and construction 
for the PROJECT; and 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants, conditions, agreements, and 
promises of the Parties hereto, the Parties agree to proceed as follows: 
 
SECTION I:  SCOPE OF PROJECT 
 
 
This Interlocal Contract #1186 applies to the development of a safe, connected, and 
convenient bicycling system throughout the City of Boulder City.  The improvements include 
asphalt paving the bicycle path between the River Mountain Trailhead Parking Lot and Pacifica 
Way. The Project is more specifically described in Exhibit “A” which is attached hereto by this 
referenced incorporated herein.  
 
 
SECTION II:  PROJECT COSTS 
 
 
The RTC agrees to provide Motor Vehicle Fuel Tax funding for all costs associated with 
the PROJECT as outlined below: 
 
1. The total cost for this contract shall not exceed $250,000.00. 
 
2. Authorizations to Proceed (ATP) are granted as follows: 
 
a. ENGINEERING not to exceed $25,000.00 
b. RIGHT-OF-WAY not to exceed $0.00 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 10B8C2B8-2879-4A1A-A92C-6F9E8D4A7343
223
c. CONSTRUCTION not to exceed $225,000.00 
 
3. At the time the ATP for construction is granted, the CITY will make all attempts to publish 
the bid for this PROJECT within 90 calendar days.  
 
4. A supplemental interlocal contract will be required for any changes to the amounts 
identified in number 2 above. 
 
SECTION III:  GENERAL 
 
1. The title sheet of both the plans and specifications shall designate the RTC as the funding 
agency.  If construction funds are provided by sources other than the RTC, the plans, 
contract documents, special provisions, and PROJECT signs shall also show the RTC as a 
funding agency. 
 
2. Preliminary engineering, design and right-of-way engineering shall be performed by the 
CITY or by a consultant employed by the CITY. 
 
3. The design, construction, right-of-way acquisition and contract administration of the 
PROJECT shall comply with the requirements as set forth in the current “Policies and 
Procedures” of the RTC. 
 
4. The CITY’s Department of Public Works has a policy which effectively prohibits utility 
cuts through the pavement for a period of five years after the completion of a PROJECT. 
 
5. Upon completion of the construction of the PROJECT, it shall be maintained by the CITY 
and no funding is provided by this Contract for such maintenance. 
 
6. The PROJECT must be completed to the satisfaction of the RTC prior to the current 
applicable completion date of June 30, 2022.  The RTC may, at any time thereafter, grant 
time extensions or terminate this Contract and require all sums advanced to the CITY be 
repaid. 
 
7. It is understood and agreed that the purpose of this Interlocal Contract is to fund the 
PROJECT as herein above set forth.  It is further understood and agreed that the CITY is 
responsible for the design and construction of the PROJECT. The CITY will be responsible 
for the actions or inactions of its Officers and Employees. The RTC’s sole responsibility is 
to facilitate funding for the PROJECT.  The RTC disavows any responsibility for the 
actions or inactions of the CITY, its Officers, Employees, or agents. 
 
8. Should the construction funds be provided by sources other than the RTC, the CITY will 
reimburse the RTC for a percentage of the preliminary engineering and design costs 
associated with other funding sources, as mutually agreed upon by the RTC and the CITY. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 10B8C2B8-2879-4A1A-A92C-6F9E8D4A7343
224
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Interlocal Contract #1186 is effective as of the date first 
set forth above: 
 
Date of Commission Action: 
 REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION 
May 21, 2020 
BY: 
 
 
 
 
 
 LAWRENCE L. BROWN III, Chairman 
 
  
 
 Attest: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MARIN DUBOIS, Management Analyst 
 
  
 
 Approved as to Form: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RTC Legal Counsel 
 
  
Date of Council Action: 
 CITY OF BOULDER CITY 
 
BY: 
 
 
 
 
 
 KIERNAN MCMANUS, Mayor 
 
  
 
 Attest 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LORENE KRUMM, City Clerk 
 
 
 
  
 
 Approved as to Form 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 STEVEN L. MORRIS, City Attorney 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 10B8C2B8-2879-4A1A-A92C-6F9E8D4A7343
225
^
QUARTZITE RD
NEVADA
WAY
LAKE MOUNTAIN DR
MARINA DR
VILLE DR
BOULDER CITY PKWY
PACIFICA WAY
JW BOULDER CITY GIS
BOULDER CITY, NV
CITY OF
PUBLIC WORKS
DEPARTMENT
ENGINEERING
DIVISION
BICYCLE PATH ASPHALT PAVING
EXHIBIT A
PROJECT LOCATIONS
ISSUE DATE:
03/24/2020
FILE NAME:
SHEET:
1 OF 1
Bikepath Asphalt.MXD
Bicycle Path Asphalt Paving
Project Locations
CREATED BY:
¯
1 in = 800 ft
0
300
600
900
1,200
150
Feet
10,625 sq yrds
Trailhead
DocuSign Envelope ID: 10B8C2B8-2879-4A1A-A92C-6F9E8D4A7343
226
R7114 R7115 Water Service Bdgt Amend and Bid Award
SUBJECT:
For possible action: Items pertaining to the Water Service Replacements FY19-20 – Coronado Estates, B.C.
Project No. 20-1109-WD:
 
A. Resolution No. 7114, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, awarding a bid for the Water
Service Replacements FY19-20 – Coronado Estates, B.C. Project No. 20-1109-WD (bids opened May 28,
2020; 4 bids received)
 
B. Resolution No. 7115, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City, amending and revising the Fiscal
Year 2019-20 Capital Improvement Plan by reallocating funds from water utility capital projects to the Water
Service Replacements FY19-20 – Coronado Estates, B.C. Project No. 20-1109-WD
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
ATTACHMENTS:
Description
Type
Item 4 Staff Report
Cover Memo
Resolution No. 7114
Cover Memo
Bid Tabulation
Cover Memo
Resolution No. 7115
Cover Memo
Exhibit A
Cover Memo
Project Location Exhibit
Cover Memo
227
City Council Meeting 
June 9, 2020 
Item No. 4 
 
Staff Report 
 
 
TO: 
Alfonso Noyola, City Manager  
 
FROM: 
Keegan Littrell, P.E., Public Works Director 
 
DATE: 
June 9, 2020 
 
SUBJECT:  For possible action: Items pertaining to the Water 
Service Replacements FY19-20 – Coronado Estates, B.C. Project No. 
20-1109-WD: 
 
A. Resolution No. 7114, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder 
City, awarding a bid for the Water Service Replacements FY19-20 – 
Coronado Estates, B.C. Project No. 20-1109-WD (bids opened May 
28, 2020; 4 bids received) 
 
B. Resolution No. 7115, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder 
City, amending and revising the Fiscal Year 2019-20 Capital 
Improvement Plan by reallocating funds from water utility capital 
projects to the Water Service Replacements FY19-20 – Coronado 
Estates, B.C. Project No. 20-1109-WD 
 
Business Impact Statement:  This action will not have a significant 
economic impact on business and will not directly restrict the 
formation, operation, or expansion of a business. 
 
Action Requested:  That the City Council approve Resolution No. 
7114, awarding a bid for the Water Service Replacements FY19-20 – 
Coronado Estates, B.C. Project No. 20-1109-WD; and Resolution No. 
7115, amending and revising the Fiscal Year 2019-20 Capital 
Improvement Plan by reallocating funds from water utility capital 
projects to the Water Service Replacements FY19-20 – Coronado 
Estates, B.C. Project No. 20-1109-WD. 
 
Overview: 
 
 
 
BOULDER CITY 
CITY COUNCIL 
 
MAYOR 
KIERNAN MCMANUS 
 
COUNCIL MEMBERS: 
JAMES HOWARD ADAMS 
CLAUDIA M. BRIDGES 
TRACY FOLDA 
JUDITH A. HOSKINS 
 
◄ ● ► 
 
MEETING LOCATION: 
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBER 
401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NV 89005 
 
MAILING ADDRESS: 
401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NV 89005 
 
WEBPAGE:  
WWW.BCNV.ORG 
 
◄ ● ► 
 
CITY MANAGER: 
ALFONSO NOYOLA, ICMA-CM 
 
CITY ATTORNEY: 
STEVEN L. MORRIS, ESQ 
 
CITY CLERK: 
LORENE KRUMM, MMC, CPO 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DIRECTOR: 
BRYCE BOLDT 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR: 
MICHAEL MAYS, AICP 
 
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: 
KEEGAN LITTRELL, P.E. 
 
UTILITIES DIRECTOR: 
DENNIS PORTER, P.E. 
 
POLICE CHIEF: 
TIM SHEA 
 
FIRE CHIEF: 
WILLIAM GRAY, CFO 
 
FINANCE DIRECTOR: 
DIANE PELLETIER, CPA 
 
PARKS & RECREATION DIRECTOR 
ROGER HALL 
 
228
• May 19, 2020, a Notice Inviting Bids was advertised for the project.  
• May 28, 2020, four bids were received, opened, and tabulated.  
• Mountain Pine Construction was the apparent low bidder, with a low bid of 
$467,002.70.  
• Funding source for this project is through the Water Utility Capital Improvement 
Fund. 
• This project will have no additional operation and maintenance costs associated 
and will provide a cost savings by reducing staff time fixing repairs. 
 
Background Information:  
 
Item A: 
 
Each year, the Public Works Department replaces aging and failing plastic water service 
lines in Boulder City with new copper services. Plastic water service lines installed in the 
past have a short life span, causing water to be wasted and damage to streets from 
leaks. Copper service lines, on the other hand, have a long and reliable history of use 
for water service lines. There are seventy-six (76) service replacements included in the 
Water Service Replacements FY19-20 – Coronado Estates project.  
 
The Notice Inviting Bids for this project was advertised in the Las Vegas Review Journal 
and posted to the Nevada Government eMarketpace (NGEM) May 19, 2020. On May 
28, 2020, four bids were received, opened, and tabulated. Mountain Pine Construction 
was the apparent low bidder, with a low bid of $467,002.70. Once the Notice to Proceed 
is issued, this will be a 150 calendar day project.  
 
Item B: 
 
As part of the Fiscal Year 2019-20 Budget, the Capital Improvement Plan included 
several projects for the water utility. These CIP projects either have been completed 
with leftover funding or were not started this fiscal year due to other project priorities.  
As such, staff would like to amend the CIP project list to close these projects and 
reallocate the remaining funds to be used towards the Coronado Estates portion of the 
Copper Service Replacements CIP project. The funding reallocation is as follows: 
 
From:  
 
Project – Water CIP 
Reallocation Amount 
ACP Pipe Replacement (Water 20-104) 
$463,300.43 
Commercial Large Meter/Vault/Backflow 
Replacements (Water 20-101) 
$100,000.00 
Total  
$563,300.43 
229
 
To: 
 
Project – Water CIP 
Reallocation Amount 
Copper Service Replacements (Water 20-106) – 
Coronado Estates Project 
$563,300.43 
Total  
$563,300.43 
 
Financial: 
 
Revenue 
Copper Service Replacements (Water 20-106)  
$400,000.00 
Capital Budget Amendment 
$563,300.43 
Total Revenue 
$963,300.43 
Expenses 
Advertising 
$367.92 
Copper Service Replacements to Date 
$268,302.42 
Contractor (Mountain Pine Construction) 
$467,002.70 
Project Expense To Date 
$735,673.04 
 
Boulder City Strategic Plan Goal: Goal B, invest in infrastructure and prioritize CIP 
projects while maximizing available funds. Public Works Department ensures 
compliance with this goal with awarding a bid for the Water Service Replacements 
FY19-20 – Coronado Estates project. 
 
Department Recommendation:  The Public Works Department respectfully requests that 
the City Council approve Resolution No. 7114, awarding a bid for the Water Service 
Replacements FY19-20 – Coronado Estates, B.C. Project No. 20-1109-WD; and 
Resolution No. 7115, amending and revising the Fiscal Year 2019-20 Capital 
Improvement Plan by reallocating funds from water utility capital projects to the Water 
Service Replacements FY19-20 – Coronado Estates, B.C. Project No. 20-1109-WD. 
 
Attachment: 
Resolution No. 7114  
Bid Tabulation  
230
Resolution No. 7115 
Exhibit A 
Project Location Exhibit 
231
 
RESOLUTION NO. 7114       
 
 
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF BOULDER CITY, NEVADA, AWARDING A 
BID FOR THE WATER SERVICE REPLACEMENTS FY19-20 – CORONADO 
ESTATES, B.C. PROJECT NO. 20-1109-WD (BIDS OPENED MAY 28, 2020; 4 BIDS 
RECEIVED) 
 
WHEREAS, work for this project will consist of removal of existing water services, 
relocation of existing service lines as needed, connection to existing or 
relocated corporation stop at the main, and installation of new copper water 
service from the main to the meter for seventy-six (76) water services within 
Coronado Estates; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Notice Inviting Bids for this project was advertised on May 19, 2020; and 
 
WHEREAS, May 28, 2020, four bids were received, opened, and tabulated; and 
 
WHEREAS, Mountain Pine Construction was the apparent low bidder, with a low bid of 
$467,002.70; and 
 
WHEREAS, funding source for this project is through the Water Utility Capital 
Improvement Fund. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that City Council approves Resolution No. 7114, 
awarding a bid to Mountain Pine Construction for the Water Service Replacements FY19-
20 – Coronado Estates, B.C. Project No. 20-1109-WD and authorizing City staff to 
proceed with entering into contracts in an amount not to exceed $467,002.70.  
 
DATED and APPROVED this 9th day of June, 2020. 
 
 
__________________________ 
Kiernan McManus, Mayor 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
______________________________ 
Lorene Krumm, City Clerk 
232
Event Number
B2003
Organization
Nevada Gov eMarketplace
Event Title
Coronado Estates Water Service Replacement Program
Workgroup
Boulder City
Event Description
DESCRIPTION OF WORK: Work includes removals of existing 3/4 and 1 water services, relocation of existing service lines as needed to attai
Event Owner
Paul Sikora
Event Type
BID
Email
psikora@bcnv.org
Issue Date
5/19/2020 02:30:00 PM (PT)
Phone
(702) 2939246
Close Date
5/28/2020 02:00:00 PM (PT)
Fax
Responding Supplier
City
State
Response Submitted
Lines Responded Response Total
Mountain Pine Construction
Boulder City
NV
5/28/2020 11:54:45 AM (PT)
15
$467,002.70
JAB Construction, Inc
Las Vegas
NV
5/28/2020 01:44:44 PM (PT)
15
$486,860.90
Capriati Construction Corp Inc
Henderson
NV
5/28/2020 12:34:31 PM (PT)
15
$511,109.00
Tand, Inc.
North Las Vegas
NV
5/28/2020 11:03:07 AM (PT)
15
$545,906.00
Please note: Lines Responded and Response Total only includes responses to specification.  No alternate response data is included.
B2003 - Page 1
233
Total Price
$467,002.70
Total Price
$486,860.90
Total Price
$511,109.00
Total Price
$545,906.00
Line #
Description
QTY
UOM
Unit
Extended
Unit
Extended
Unit
Extended
Unit
Extended
1
105.6 Cooperation with Utilities
1
LS
$15,000.00
$15,000.00
$16,536.00
$16,536.00
$4,085.00
$4,085.00
$1,500.00
$1,500.00
2
105.18 Contractors Meter Change Slip
1
LS
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
3
105.19 Permits and Permit Inspection Coordination
1
LS
$14,630.00
$14,630.00
$84,500.00
$84,500.00
$4,585.00
$4,585.00
$3,500.00
$3,500.00
4
107.23 Notifications
1
LS
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
$8,450.00
$8,450.00
$1,990.00
$1,990.00
$1,500.00
$1,500.00
5
109.03 Extra and Force Account Work
1
LS
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
6
109.09 Deficiency List
1
LS
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
7
200.01 Mobilization
1
LS
$29,350.00
$29,350.00
$8,450.00
$8,450.00
$20,790.00
$20,790.00
$70,000.00
$70,000.00
8
200.02 Photograph/Video/Daily Documentation
1
LS
$12,160.00
$12,160.00
$8,476.00
$8,476.00
$1,600.00
$1,600.00
$1,500.00
$1,500.00
9
200.03 Project Identification Sign
1
EA
$1,200.00
$1,200.00
$1,455.00
$1,455.00
$1,825.00
$1,825.00
$500.00
$500.00
10
202.02 Removal of Asphaltic Concrete
7882
SF
$4.35
$34,286.70
$3.13
$24,670.66
$3.50
$27,587.00
$2.00
$15,764.00
11
401.01 Hot Asphalt Patching Minimum 3-Inch Section
7882
SF
$8.00
$63,056.00
$6.62
$52,178.84
$6.00
$47,292.00
$6.00
$47,292.00
12
613.01 Concrete Removals and Replacement1
LS
$2,280.00
$2,280.00
$18,694.00
$18,694.00
$11,185.00
$11,185.00
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
13
624.01 Temporary Traffic Control and Barricading
1
LS
$64,920.00
$64,920.00
$44,876.00
$44,876.00
$42,350.00
$42,350.00
$42,350.00
$42,350.00
14
626.01 Final Clean-up
1
LS
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
15
629.01 3/4 inch and 1 inch Copper Water Service Replacements
76
EA
$1,870.00
$142,120.00
$1,744.40
$132,574.40
$3,445.00
$261,820.00
$3,500.00
$266,000.00
Mountain Pine Construction
JAB Construction, Inc
Capriati Construction Corp Inc
Tand, Inc.
B2003 - Page 2
234
 
RESOLUTION NO. 7115       
 
 
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF BOULDER CITY, NEVADA, AMENDING 
AND REVISING THE FISCAL YEAR 2019-20 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN BY 
REALLOCATING FUNDS FROM WATER UTILITY CAPITAL PROJECTS TO THE 
WATER SERVICE REPLACEMENTS FY19-20 – CORONADO ESTATES, B.C. 
PROJECT NO. 20-1109-WD 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City adopts a Capital Improvement Plan to be implemented through the 
adopted budget of the City each year; and 
 
WHEREAS, it has become necessary to reallocate funding from water utility CIP projects 
to the Copper Service Replacement CIP project for the Coronado Estates  
portion of the project; and 
 
WHEREAS, the proposed projects and amounts to shift to the Water Service 
Replacements FY19-20 – Coronado Estates project are shown on the 
attached Exhibit A, resulting in a funding reallocation of $563,300.43 for 
Fiscal Year 2020. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that City Council approves Resolution No. 7115, 
amending and revising the Fiscal Year 2020 Capital Improvement Fund budget to 
reallocate $563,300.43 from the projects identified on Exhibit A to the Water Service 
Replacements FY19-20 – Coronado Estates project for Fiscal Year 2020.   
 
 
DATED and APPROVED this 9th day of June, 2020. 
 
 
 
__________________________ 
Kiernan McManus, Mayor 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
______________________________ 
Lorene Krumm, City Clerk 
235
Exhibit A 
 
As part of the Fiscal Year 2019-20 Budget, the Capital Improvement Plan included several 
projects for the water utility. These CIP projects either have been completed with leftover 
funding or were not started this fiscal year due to other project priorities.  As such, staff 
would like to amend the CIP project list to close these projects and reallocate the 
remaining funds to be used towards the Coronado Estates portion of the Copper Service 
Replacements CIP project. The funding reallocation is as follows: 
 
From:  
 
Project – Water CIP 
Reallocation Amount 
ACP Pipe Replacement (Water 20-104) 
$463,300.43 
Commercial Large Meter/Vault/Backflow 
Replacements (Water 20-101) 
$100,000.00 
Total  
$563,300.43 
 
To: 
 
Project – Water CIP 
Reallocation Amount 
Copper Service Replacements (Water 20-106) – 
Coronado Estates Project 
$563,300.43 
Total  
$563,300.43 
 
236
237
R7116 COLV Interlocal
SUBJECT:
For possible action: Resolution No. 7116, a resolution of the City Council of Boulder City,
approving Agreement No. 20-1890, an interlocal agreement between the City of Boulder City and
the City of Las Vegas for the transfer of equipment and supplies provided through participation in
the FY2018 Homeland Security Grant Program, funded by the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
ATTACHMENTS:
Description
Type
Item 5 Staff Report R7116
Cover Memo
R7116
Resolution Letter
Agreement Information Form - COLV
Backup Material
Agreement 20 1890
Backup Material
238
City Council Meeting 
June 9, 2020 
Item No. 5 
 
Staff Report 
 
 
TO: 
Alfonso Noyola, City Manager 
 
FROM: 
Will Gray, Fire Chief 
 
DATE: 
June 9, 2020 
 
 
SUBJECT:  For possible action: Resolution No. 7116, a resolution of 
the City Council of Boulder City, approving Agreement No. 20-1890, 
an inter-local agreement between the City of Boulder City and the City 
of Las Vegas for the transfer of equipment and supplies provided 
through participation in the FY2018 Homeland Security Grant 
Program, funded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
 
 
Business Impact Statement:  This action will not have a significant 
economic impact on business and will not directly restrict the 
formation, operation, or expansion of a business. 
 
Action Requested:  That the City Council consider approval of 
Resolution No. 7116. 
 
Overview: 
 
• The purpose of the Agreement is to allow for the transfer of the 
equipment from the City of Las Vegas to the City of Boulder City  
• The equipment includes ballistic helmet and vests, with armor, for 
use by firefighters during hostile events, such as active shooter 
incidents. 
 
Background Information: The Boulder City Fire department is primarily 
responsible 
for 
all 
hazard 
responses, 
prevention, 
structure 
suppression, and wildland fire suppression occurring within the city 
limits of Boulder City.  This includes responding to and working in 
hazardous conditions, such as police responses involving deadly 
weapons.  It is important to provide firefighters with the appropriate 
level of personal protective equipment to reduce the risks they are 
 
 
BOULDER CITY 
CITY COUNCIL 
 
MAYOR 
KIERNAN MCMANUS 
 
COUNCIL MEMBERS: 
JAMES HOWARD ADAMS 
CLAUDIA M. BRIDGES 
TRACY FOLDA 
JUDITH A. HOSKINS 
◄ ● ► 
 
MEETING LOCATION: 
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBER 
401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NV 89005 
 
MAILING ADDRESS: 
401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NV 89005 
 
WEBPAGE:  
WWW.BCNV.ORG 
 
◄ ● ► 
 
CITY MANAGER: 
ALFONSO NOYOLA, ICMA-CM 
 
CITY ATTORNEY: 
STEVE MORRIS, ESQ 
 
CITY CLERK: 
LORENE KRUMM, MMC, CPO 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DIRECTOR: 
BRYCE BOLDT 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR: 
MICHAEL MAYES, AICP 
 
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: 
KEEGAN LITTRELL, P.E. 
 
UTILITIES DIRECTOR: 
DENNIS PORTER, P.E. 
 
POLICE CHIEF: 
TIM SHEA 
 
FIRE CHIEF: 
WILL GRAY, CFO 
 
FINANCE DIRECTOR: 
Diane Pelletier, CPA 
 
PARKS & RECREATION DIRECTOR 
ROGER HALL 
239
faced with during these unique incidents.  This typically consists of ballistic armor for the 
head and chest areas.  This is accomplished through the use of helmets and bullet 
proof vest with armor.      
 
This equipment comes from the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) through the City of 
Las Vegas to the City of Boulder City at no cost.  The agreement is only for the transfer 
of this safety equipment and will expire on August 31, 2020 at which time all of the 
transactions must be completed.  
 
This equipment will allow for our firefighters to be provided with an increased level of 
safety during these violent events and allow them to perform the necessary rescues 
should they occur.   
 
Recommendation:  The Fire Department respectfully request that the City Council 
approve Resolution No. 7116, approving Agreement No. 20-1890 between the City of 
Boulder City and the City of Las Vegas for the transfer of supplies and equipment. 
 
Attachments: 
R7116 
Agreement Form – City of Las Vegas 
Agreement No. 20-1890 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
240
 
RESOLUTION NO. 7116           
 
A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF BOULDER CITY, APPROVING 
AGREEMENT NO. 20-1890, AN INTER-LOCAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF 
BOULDER CITY AND THE CITY OF LAS VEGAS FOR THE TRANSFER OF EQUIPMENT 
AND SUPPLIES PROVIDED THROUGH PARTICIPATION IN THE FY2018 HOMELAND 
SECURITY GRANT PROGRAM, FUNDED BY THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND 
SECURITY. 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Boulder City and the City of Las Vegas establish an inter-local 
agreement for the transfer of equipment and supplies provided through 
participation in the FY2018 Homeland Security Grant Program, funded by the 
U.S. Department of Homeland Security; and 
 
WHEREAS,  it is beneficial for the City of Boulder City to enter into an inter-local 
agreement with the City of Las Vegas to transfer ballistic helmets and vest 
for use by the Boulder City Fire Department; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Boulder City desires to enter into an agreement with the City of 
Las Vegas; and 
 
WHEREAS,  the City of Las Vegas desires to enter into an agreement with the City of 
Boulder City.   
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council that Resolution No. 7116, 
approving Agreement No. 20-1890, between the City of Boulder City and the City of Las 
Vegas be approved.  
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the City Council that the City Manager is hereby 
authorized and directed to sign Agreement No. 20-1890.   
 
DATED and APPROVED this 9th day of June 2020. 
 
 
 
__________________________ 
Kiernan McManus, Mayor 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
______________________________ 
Lorene Krumm, City Clerk 
241
                                  Agreement Information Form 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Council Date: 
June 9, 2020 
 
Resolution/Ordinance #: 
R7116 
 
Agreement/Amendment No.: 20-1890 
 
Type of Agreement: 
Interlocal 
 
Description: 
Resolution No. 7116, a resolution of the City Council of 
Boulder City, approving Agreement No. 20-1890, an inter-local agreement 
between the City of Boulder City and the City of Las Vegas for the transfer 
of equipment and supplies provided through participation in the FY2018 
Homeland Security Grant Program, funded by the U.S. Department of 
Homeland Security 
 
Effective Date: 
7/1/2020 
 
Insurance: No 
 
When:        
 
Options: 
No 
 
 
Notes:        
 
Payment Due: 
NA 
 
Term Date:  
     
 
Department: 
Fire 
 
City of BC Contact: 
Will Gray 293-9228  
 
Project No.  NA 
 
Contact Info: 
Christopher Sproule, City of Las Vegas,  
csproule@lasvegasnevada.gov 
 
242
                                  Agreement Information Form 
Notes/Comments: 
Once the signatures are obtained from the City of 
Boulder City, we will pick up the agreement and hand deliver them to Mr. 
Sproule.   
243
City of Las Vegas Agreement # ________________ 
City of Boulder City Agreement # 20-1890 
INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT 
Between the City of Las Vegas 
Acting By and Through Its 
Fire and Rescue Department 
                 AND 
                        The City of Boulder City Fire Department 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Las Vegas, Nevada (the “City”), has entered into a grant agreement with the State of 
Nevada Department of Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, for participation in the 
FFY 2018 Homeland Security Grant Program, funded by the U.S. Department of Homeland 
Security; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Boulder City Fire Department (the “Subrecipient”), a unit of local government 
located at 401 California Avenue, Boulder City, NV 89005 will receive equipment and supplies 
specific to the FFY 2018 Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) MMRS Sustain and Competitive 
project, Award number 97067.18-3100; and 
 
WHEREAS, the FFY 2018 UASI MMRS grant funds will purchase items listed in “EXHIBIT A: ASSETS 
TO BE TRANSFERRED TO SUBRECIPIENT”; and 
 
 
 
       
 
WHEREAS, NRS 277.180 authorizes any one or more public agencies to contract with any one or more other public        
                        agencies to perform any governmental service, activity or undertaking which any of the public agencies       
                          entering into the contract is authorized by law to perform; and 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the aforesaid premises, the parties mutually agree as follows: 
 
1. City, through its Las Vegas Fire and Rescue Department shall purchase and transfer the assets to Subrecipient 
purchased price of FOUR THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED AND SEVENTY TWO DOLLARS ($4,872.00) 
from FFY 2018 Homeland Security Grant Program funds, Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) 
Number 97.067.  See “EXHIBIT A:  ASSETS TO BE TRANSFERRED TO SUBRECIPIENT.” 
2. Subrecipient will provide City with documentation supporting transfer of assets and will provide any additional 
documentation requested by City that may be required in the administration of the grant funds. 
3. Subrecipient is responsible for routine maintenance of transferred assets. Final disposition of assets must comply 
with all Federal laws and regulations associated with the assets purchased. 
4. It is specifically understood and agreed by Subrecipient that City shall not be obligated to transfer assets to 
Subrecipient hereunder and hereafter in the event that such Federal funds for any reason are terminated or 
withheld from City or are otherwise not forthcoming, and in such event, City may terminate this Contract. 
5. Regardless of any termination of this agreement, Subrecipient shall comply with all Federal laws and regulations 
associated with the assets purchased with the grant funds transferred to the Subrecipient for the project identified 
in the Contract. See “EXHIBIT B: STANDARD ASSURANCES FOR NEVADA DIVISION OF 
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT’S (DEM) FEDERAL GRANT PROGRAMS.” 
6. This Contract and its integrated exhibit(s) constitute the entire agreement of the parties and such are intended as a 
complete and exclusive statement of the promises, representations, negotiations, discussions, and other agree-
ments that may have been made in connection with the subject matter hereof.  Unless an integrated exhibit to this 
Contract specifically displays a mutual intent to amend a particular part of this Contract, general conflicts in 
language between any such exhibit and this Contract shall be construed consistent with the terms of this Contract. 
 Unless otherwise expressly authorized by the terms of this Contract, no modification or amendment to this 
Contract shall be binding upon the parties unless the same is in writing and signed by the respective parties 
hereto. 
7. This Contract shall not become effective until and unless approved by appropriate official action of the governing 
body of each party. 
8. This Contract shall be completed by August 31, 2020 and shall be deemed terminated on August 31, 2020. 
9. This Contract may be terminated by either party, for any reason with written notice of at least 60 days. 
10. Neither party waives any right or defense to indemnification that may exist in law or equity. 
 
 
 
244
City of Las Vegas Agreement # ________________ 
City of Boulder City Agreement # 20-1890 
11. All notices or other communications required or permitted to be given under this Contract shall be in writing and 
shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally in hand, by telephonic facsimile with 
simultaneous regular mail, or mailed certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid on the date posted, 
and addressed to the other party at the address set forth above. 
12. The parties hereto represent and warrant that the person executing this Contract on behalf of each party has full 
power and authority to enter into this Contract and that the parties are authorized by law to perform the services 
set forth in paragraph (6). 
 
245
City of Las Vegas Agreement # ________________ 
City of Boulder City Agreement # 20-1890 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Contract to be signed and intend to be legally bound 
thereby. 
 
 
ENTERED INTO this ______day of _________________, 2020. 
 
 
ATTEST:        
 
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF LAS VEGAS 
 
 
By:                                                                              
 
 
By:                                                                                      
LuAnn Holmes      
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carolyn G. Goodman 
 
City Clerk        
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mayor 
 
 
Date:                                                                                            
 Date:                                                                                
  
 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
By:                                                                                        
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deputy City Attorney 
 
 
 
            
 
 
 
City of Boulder City 
 
 
By:                                                                              
 
 
By:                                                                                      
Lorene Krumm      
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kiernan McManus 
 
City Clerk        
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mayor 
 
 
Date:                                                                                            
 Date:                                                                                
 
 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
By:                                                                                       
                                                                                                           Steve Morris 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
City Attorney 
 
                                                                                                            Date:                                                                                
 
246
City of Las Vegas Agreement # ________________ 
City of Boulder City Agreement # 20-1890 
EXHIBIT “A” 
 
ASSETS TO BE TRANSFERRED TO SUBRECIPIENT 
FFY 2018 UASI MMRS project 
 
 
Grant:  FY18 UASI MMRS SUSTAIN 
 
   Units 
    Unit Price         Total 
Replacement Ballistic Helmets 
8 
 $     277.00   $    2,216.00  
Replacement Ballistic Plates 
8 
 $        87.00  $       696.00  
Replacement Ballistic Vests 
8 
 $        42.00  $       336.00 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grant:  FY18 UASI MMRS COMPETITIVE 
 
 
 
New Ballistic Helmets 
4 
 $     277.00   $    1,108.00  
New Ballistic Vests 
4 
 $        42.00  $       168.00  
New Ballistic Plates 
4 
 $        87.00  $       348.00  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TOTAL 
 $    4,872.00  
 
247
City of Las Vegas Agreement # ________________ 
City of Boulder City Agreement # 20-1890 
EXHIBIT “B” 
 
Standard Assurances for Nevada Division of Emergency 
Management’s (DEM) Federal Grant Programs 
 
 
Acceptance of the Interlocal Agreement herein certifies that the Subrecipient, described heretofore as “Applicant,” 
has the legal authority to apply for federal grant assistance and the institutional, managerial, and financial 
capability (including funds sufficient to pay the non-Federal share of the project  cost)  to  ensure  proper  
planning,  management,  and  completion  of  the  described  project (“Project”) within the period of performance. 
 
Subrecipient further acknowledges responsibility for reviewing and adhering to all of the following requirements: 
 
-             Applicable  Federal  Laws,  Regulations,  and  Guidelines  (government  cost   principles,                
uniform administrative requirements and audit requirements for federal grant programs are set forth in 
Title 2, Part 200 of the Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.).  Updates are issued by the Office of 
Management and Budget (OMB) and can be  found at http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/); 
-             Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO); 
-             Applicable Nevada Statutes, Regulations, and Policies; 
-             Nevada Department of Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management Grant 
Financial and Program Assurances; 
-             Nevada Department of Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, Grant 
Management Guide. 
 
In addition to the above listed requirements, the Applicant hereby agrees to comply with the following provisions 
of this Agreement: 
 
1.           WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION 
 
The Applicant shall obtain a written authorization from its governing body in support of the Project, which 
specifies that the Applicant agrees: 
 
a.           To designate the authorized representative with the authority to bind the governing 
body; 
 
b.           To provide all matching funds required for the Project; 
 
c.           That any liability arising out of the performance of the Project and assurances will be the 
responsibility of the Applicant; and 
 
d.           Grant funds shall not be used to supplant expenditures controlled by the Applicant or 
its governing body. 
 
 
2.           ACCESS TO RECORDS 
 
The  Applicant will give the awarding agency, the Comptroller General of the United States and, if 
appropriate, the State, through any authorized representative, access to and the right to examine all records, 
books, papers, or documents related to the grant award; and will establish a proper accounting system in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting standards or agency directives. 
 
3.           PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE 
 
The period of performance for each grant award will be determined by the Division of Emergency 
Management (“DEM”) based upon the deadlines imposed on DEM by the terms of the federal grant. All work on 
the Project must be completed within the period of performance specified in the grant. DEM will periodically 
review the expenditures of the grant to ensure sufficient progress is made on the Project.  If DEM 
determines that the Project will not be completed within the period of performance, DEM will terminate the 
grant and re-obligate the funding to other projects. 
248
City of Las Vegas Agreement # ________________ 
City of Boulder City Agreement # 20-1890 
 
4.           FUNDING RESTRICTIONS 
 
Federal funds made available through an award may be used only for the purpose outlined in the award and must 
be consistent with the statutory authority for the award. Award funds may not be used for matching  funds  for 
 any  other  Federal  award,  lobbying,  or  intervention  in  Federal  regulatory  or adjudicatory proceedings. In 
addition, Federal funds may not be used to sue the Federal Government or any other government entity. 
 
5.           LOBBYING AND POLITICAL ACTIVITIES 
 
The Applicant must comply with 31 U.S.C. § 1352, which provides that none of the funds provided under an award 
may be expended by the recipient to pay any person to influence, or attempt to influence an officer or employee 
of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an 
employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any Federal action concerning the award or renewal. 
 
The Applicant will comply, as applicable, with provisions of the Hatch Act (5 U.S.C. §§1501-1508 and 
7324-7328) which limit the political activities of employees whose principal employment activities are funded in 
whole or in part with Federal funds. 
 
6.           DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION 
 
The Applicant is subject to the non-procurement debarment and suspension regulations implementing Executive 
Orders 12549 and 12689, 2 C.F.R. §200.212, and 2 C.F.R.  Part 180. These regulations restrict awards, subawards, 
and contracts with certain parties that are debarred, suspended, or otherwise excluded from or ineligible for 
participation in federal assistance programs or activities. 
 
The Applicant agrees to comply with the Federal Debarment and Suspension regulations as outlined in the 
"Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion – Lower Tier Covered 
Transactions." Proof of debarment search must be provided to DEM. 
 
7.           NON-DISCRIMINATION AND EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY 
 
The Applicant will comply with all federal statutes relating to non-discrimination. These include, but are not 
limited to, the following: 
 
a.           Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Public Law (P.L.) 88-352 and 42 U.S.C. §2000d et. 
seq.) which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin and requires 
that recipients of federal financial assistance take reasonable steps to provide meaningful access 
to persons with limited English proficiency (LEP) to their programs and services; 
b.           Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, (20 U.S.C. §§1681-1683, and 1685- 
1686), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in any federally funded 
educational program or activity; 
c.           Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, (29 U.S.C. §794), which prohibits 
discrimination against those with disabilities or access and functional needs; 
d.           Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990, which prohibits discrimination on the 
basis of disability and requires buildings and structures be accessible to those with 
disabilities and access and functional needs (42 U.S.C. §§ 12101-12213.); 
e.           Age Discrimination Act of 1975, (42 U.S.C. §§ 6101-6107), which prohibits 
discrimination on the basis of age; 
f.            Public Health Service Act of 1912 (42 U.S.C. §§ 290), relating to confidentiality of patient 
records regarding substance abuse treatment; 
g.           Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. §3601 et seq.), relating to 
nondiscrimination in the sale, rental or financing of housing as implemented by the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development at 24 C.F.R. Part 100. The prohibition on disability 
discrimination includes the requirement that new multifamily housing with four or more dwelling 
units—i.e., the public and common use areas and individual apartment units (all units in buildings 
249
City of Las Vegas Agreement # ________________ 
City of Boulder City Agreement # 20-1890 
with elevators and ground-floor units in buildings without elevators)—be designed and 
constructed with certain accessible features (See 
24 C.F.R. § 100.201); 
h.           Executive Order 11246, which prohibits federal contractors and federally assisted 
construction contractors and subcontractors, who do over $10,000 in Government business in 
one year from discriminating in employment decisions on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identification, or national origin; 
i.            Executive Order 11375, which bans discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, 
sex, sexual orientation, gender identification, or national origin in hiring and employment in 
both the United States federal workforce and on the part of government contractors; 
j.            DHS policy to ensure the equal treatment of faith-based organizations, under which all 
applicants and recipients must comply with equal treatment policies and requirements 
contained in 6 C.F.R. Part 19; 
k.           Any other nondiscrimination provisions in the specific statute(s) under which 
application for federal assistance is being made; and 
l.            The requirements of any other nondiscrimination statute(s) which may apply to the 
application. 
 
8.           DRUG FREE WORKPLACE 
 
The Applicant must comply with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. §§ 701 et seq.), which requires  
all  organizations  receiving  grants  from  any  Federal  agency  agree  to  maintain  a  drug-free workplace. DHS has 
adopted the Act's implementing regulations at 2 C.F.R Part 3001. 
 
9.           ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONS 
 
The Applicant will comply with environmental standards which may be prescribed pursuant to the following: 
 
a.           Institution of environmental quality control measures under the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 (P.L. 91-190) and Executive Order (EO) 11514; 
b.           Notification of violating facilities pursuant to EO 11738; 
c.           Protection of wetlands pursuant to EO 11990; 
d.           Evaluation of flood hazards in floodplains in accordance with EO 11988; 
e.           assurance  of  project  consistency  with  the  approved  State  management   program 
developed under the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. §§ 1451 et seq.); 
f.            Conformity of Federal actions to State (Clean Air) Implementation Plans under Section 
176(c) of the Clean Air Act of 1955, as amended (42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.); 
g.           Protection of underground sources of drinking water under the Safe Drinking Water Act 
of 1974, as amended (P.L. 93-523); and, (h) protection of endangered species under the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (P.L. 93- 205); 
h.           Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 1968 (16 U.S.C. §§ 1271 et seq.) related to protecting 
components or potential components of the national wild and scenic rivers system; 
i.            The   all   sub-grantees   will   follow   the   Environmental   Historical   Protection   (EHP) 
requirements set forth by the Federal granting agency. The sub-grantee will not undertake any 
project having the potential to impact EHP resources without the prior written approval of the 
Federal granting agency, including but not limited to ground disturbance, construction, 
modification of structures, and purchase and use of sonar equipment. Sub-grantees must 
comply with all conditions placed on the project as a result of the EHP review. Any change to 
the approved project scope of work will require a re-evaluation for compliance with these EHP 
requirements.  Any  construction  or renovation activities defined by the SAA’s office that have 
been initiated without the necessary EHP review and approval will result in a non-compliance 
funding and will not be eligible for Federal funding. Please see the link provided for Information 
Bulletin (IB) 371 Environmental Historical Review Process 
http://www.fema.gov/doc/government/grant/bulletins/info329_final_screening_memo 
.docx 
 
250
City of Las Vegas Agreement # ________________ 
City of Boulder City Agreement # 20-1890 
 
10.        PREPAREDNESS FUNDING 
 
The Applicant will comply with the Federal Granting Agency policy regarding the use of preparedness grant 
funding for sustainment costs.  Grant  funds  may  be  used  to  cover  only  those  maintenance agreements, user 
fees, and other sustainment costs provided during the grant performance period in which the device was 
purchased. 
 
The Applicant may not use future year preparedness grant funding to pay for additional 
agreements and user fees, please refer to Information Bulletin (IB) 336 & 379.  All ongoing expenses 
after the performance period has expired are the responsibility of the grantee/sub- grantee and will 
not be paid for with FEMA preparedness grant funding. 
 
a.    Sub-grantees   may   use   FEMA   preparedness   grant   funding   to   pay    for 
maintenance agreements, user fees, and other sustainment costs as long as: 
 
1.   The equipment was purchased with FEMA preparedness grant funding. (if 
applicable); 
 
2.   The sustainment costs fall within the performance period of the grant that 
was used to purchase the equipment. 
 
b.   Sustainment costs are eligible under the equipment category unless   the equipment 
   is    Management    &    Administration    (M&A)    related    (grants management 
equipment). 
 
11.        FEDERAL   EMERGENCY   MANAGEMENT   GRANT   PROGRAM   DIRECTORATE   INFORMATION                    
                     BULLETINS 
 
The Grant Programs Directorate (GPD) Information Bulletins (IBs) section provides access to GPD IBs released 
since 2012. IBs provide stakeholders with administrative instructions and guidelines critical to supporting the 
effectiveness and efficient delivery of FEMA Grant Programs. The Applicant will comply with all GPD IBs.    
https://www.fema.gov/grant-programs-directorate-information-bulletins 
 
 
12.        CONFLICTS OF INTEREST 
 
The Applicant will establish safeguards to prohibit employees from using their positions for a purpose that 
constitutes or presents the appearance of personal or organizational conflict of interest, or personal gain. 
 
 
13.        AUDITS 
 
The Applicant will cause to be performed the required financial and compliance audits in accordance with the 
Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 and Title 2 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 200, Subpart F Audit 
Requirements, if Applicant expends $750,000 or more in federal grant funds annually, 
 
The Applicant will cause to be performed the required financial and compliance audits in accordance with the 
Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 and OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and 
Non-Profit Organizations." 
 
14.     NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS) 
 
The Department of Homeland Security released the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as required 
by Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 8 Management of Domestic Incidents and Preparedness.   
HSPD-5 established and designated the National Integration Center (NIC) Incident Management Systems Division as 
the lead Federal entity to coordinate NIMS compliance. 
251
City of Las Vegas Agreement # ________________ 
City of Boulder City Agreement # 20-1890 
 
In  order  to  be  eligible  to  receive  grant  funding,  the  Applicant  must  meet  NIMS  compliance 
requirements.  State,  Territory,  Tribal,  and  local  governments  are  considered  to  be  in  full  NIMS 
compliance if  they  have adopted and/or  implemented  compliance activities,  as  determined by the National  
Incident  Management  System  Capability  Assessment  Support  Tool  (NIMSCAST)  or  other accepted     means. 
     Additional      information      on      achieving      compliance      is      available      at 
http://www.fema.gov/emergency/nims/ 
 
15.        INTERGOVERNMENTAL PERSONNEL ACT 
 
The Applicant will comply with the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. §§ 4728-4763) relating to 
prescribed standards for merit systems for programs funded under one of the 19 statutes or regulations specified 
in Appendix A of OPM's Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration (5 C.F.R. 900, Subpart F). 
 
16.        HUMAN TRAFFICKING 
 
The Applicant will comply with the requirements of Section 106(g) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act 
(TVPA) of 2000, as amended (22 U.S.C. § 7104) which prohibits grant award recipients or a sub- recipient 
from (1) Engaging in severe forms of trafficking in persons during the period of time that the award is in effect 
(2) Procuring a commercial sex act during the period of time that the award is in effect or (3) Using forced labor in 
the performance of the award or subawards under the award. 
 
17.        CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS 
 
For construction projects, the Applicant will: 
 
a.           Not dispose of, modify the use of, or change the terms of the real property title or other 
interest in the site and facilities without permission and instructions from the awarding agency. 
Will record the federal awarding agency directives and will include a covenant in the title of real 
property acquired in whole or in part with federal assistance funds to assure nondiscrimination 
during the useful life of the project; 
b.           Comply with the requirements of the awarding agency with regard to the drafting, 
review and approval of construction plans and specifications; and 
c.           Provide   and   maintain   competent   and   adequate   engineering   supervision   at   the 
construction site to ensure that the complete work conforms with the approved plans and 
specifications and will furnish progressive reports and such other information as may be 
required by the assistance awarding agency or State. 
 
18.        LABOR STANDARDS 
 
The Applicant will comply with the following federal labor standards: 
 
a.           The Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. §§ 276a to 276a-7), as applicable, and the Copeland Act 
(40  U.S.C.  §  3145  and  18  U.S.C.  §  874)  and  the  Contract  Work  Hours  and  Safety 
Standards Act (40 U.S.C. §§ 327-333), regarding labor standards for  federally-assisted 
construction contracts or subcontracts; and 
b.           The Federal Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. § 201 et al.) as they apply to employees 
of institutes of higher learning (IHE), hospitals and other non-profit organizations. 
 
19.        WORKER COMPENSATION 
 
The  Applicant  will  comply  with  provisions  which  require  every  employer  to  be  insured  to  protect workers 
who may be injured on the job at all times during the performance of the work of this Project, as per the workers 
compensation laws set forth in NRS 616A, NRS 616B, NRS 616C, NRS 616D, and NRS 
617. 
 
252
City of Las Vegas Agreement # ________________ 
City of Boulder City Agreement # 20-1890 
 
20.        REAL PROPERTY 
 
If applicable to the type of project funded by this federal award, the Applicant will: 
 
a.           Comply with the requirements of Titles II and III of the Uniform Relocation Assistance 
and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (P.L. 91-646) which  provide for fair and 
equitable treatment of persons displaced or whose property is acquired as a result of federal or 
federally-assisted programs. These requirements  apply to all interests in real  property  
acquired  for  project  purposes  regardless  of   federal  participation  in purchase; 
b.           Comply  with flood insurance purchase requirements of Section 102(a) of  the  Flood 
Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (P.L. 93-234) which requires subrecipients in a special flood 
hazard area to participate in the program and to purchase flood insurance if the total cost of 
insurable construction and acquisition is $10,000 or more; 
c.           Assist the awarding agency in assuring compliance with Section 106 of the  National 
Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. § 470), Executive Order 11593 
(identification and protection of historic properties), and the Archaeological and Historic 
Preservation Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. §§ 469a-1 et seq.); and 
 
d.           Comply with the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. § 4831 and 
24CFR Part 35) which prohibits the use of lead-based paint in construction or rehabilitation of 
residence structures. 
 
21.        CONTROLLED EQUIPMENT AND EQUIPMENT MANAGEMENT 
 
The Applicant is subject to compliance with Information Bulletin (IB) 407, 407a, and 414. Use of Grant Funds for 
Controlled Equipment under EO 13688, Federal Support for Local Law Enforcement Equipment Acquisition  issued  
January  16,  2015,  and  the  recommendations  pursuant  to  the  EO  13688,  which collectively establishes a 
Prohibited Equipment List and Controlled Equipment List and identified actions necessary to improve Federal 
support for the appropriate acquisition, use, and transfer of controlled equipment by state, local, tribal, 
territorial, and private grant recipients. The Applicant must adhere to IB 407 and must follow the established pre-
approval processes in place per this guidance. 
 
Effective control and accountability must be maintained for all equipment acquired with Federal funds. The 
Applicant must adequately safeguard all such equipment and must assure that it is used solely for authorized 
purposes as described in the guidance. The Applicant will use, manage, and dispose of such property in 
accordance with 2 CFR Part 200. 
 
22.        DUPLICATION OF BENEFITS 
 
The Applicant acknowledges that any cost allocable to a particular federal financial assistance award provided 
for in 2 C.F.R. Part 200, Subpart E, may not be charged to other federal financial assistance awards to 
overcome fund deficiencies, to avoid restrictions imposed by federal statutes, regulations, or federal  financial  
assistance  award  terms  and  conditions,  or  for  other  reasons.  However,  these prohibitions would not 
preclude recipients from shifting costs that are allowable under two or more awards in accordance  with 
existing federal statutes, regulations, or the federal financial assistance award terms and conditions. 
 
23.        NEVADA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT AND THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT 
 
The Applicant acknowledges that all information submitted in the course of applying for funding under this 
program, or provided in the course of an entity’s grant management activities that are under Federal 
control, is subject to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. § 552, and the Nevada Public Records 
Law, contained in Chapter 239 of the Nevada Revised Statutes. 
 
 
 
253
City of Las Vegas Agreement # ________________ 
City of Boulder City Agreement # 20-1890 
 
24.        HUMAN SUBJECTS 
 
The Applicant will comply with P.L. 93-348 regarding the protection of human subjects involved in research, 
development, and related activities supported by this award of assistance. 
 
25.        INTERGOVERNMENTAL PERSONNEL ACT 
 
The Applicant will comply with the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. §§ 4728-4763) relating to 
prescribed standards for merit systems for programs funded under one of the 19 statutes or regulations specified 
in Appendix A of OPM's Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration (5 C.F.R. 900, Subpart F). 
 
 
 
 
26.        SAFECOM 
 
The Applicant will comply with the SAFECOM Guidance for Emergency Communication Grants. 
 
27.        WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION ACT 
 
The Applicant will comply with the statutory requirements for whistleblower protections (if applicable) 
at 10 U.S.C § 2409, 41 U.S.C. 4712, and 10 U.S.C. § 2324, 41 U.S.C. §§ 4304 and 4310. 
 
28.        USE OF DHS SEAL, LOGO AND FLAGS 
 
The Applicant will obtain permission from their financial assistance office, prior to using the Department of 
Homeland Security (DHS) seal(s), logos, crests or reproductions of flags or likenesses of the DHS agency 
officials, including use of the United States Coast Guard seal, logo, crests or reproductions of flags or likenesses 
of Coast Guard officials. 
 
29.        USA PATRIOT ACT OF 2001 
 
The Applicant will comply with requirements of the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing 
Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act (USA PATRIOT Act). 
 
30.        UNIVERSAL IDENTIFIER AND SYSTEM OF AWARD MANAGEMENT (SAM) 
 
The  Applicant  will  comply  with  the  requirements  set  forth  in  the  government-wide  Award  Term regarding 
the System for Award Management and Universal Identifier Requirements located at 2 C.F.R. Part 25, Appendix A, 
the full text of which is incorporated here by reference in the terms and conditions of your award. 
 
31.        TERRORIST FINANCING 
 
The Applicant will comply with EO 13224 and U.S. law that prohibit transactions with, and the provisions of 
resources and support to, individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. It is the legal responsibility 
of the Applicant to ensure compliance with the Order and laws. 
 
32.        REPORTING SUBAWARDS AND EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
 
The Applicant understands and acknowledges that in order to sub-subaward grant funding, written 
permission must be granted by DEM in advance of the sub-subaward. 
 
The Applicant will comply with the requirements set forth in the government-wide Award Term on Reporting 
Subawards and Executive Compensation located at 2 C.F.R. Part 170, Appendix A, the full text of which is 
incorporated here by reference in the terms and conditions of your award. 
 
 
 
254
City of Las Vegas Agreement # ________________ 
City of Boulder City Agreement # 20-1890 
 
33.        PATENTS AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 
 
Unless otherwise provided by law, the Applicant is subject to the Bayh-Dole Act, Pub. L. No. 96-517, as amended, 
and codified in 35 U.S.C. §§ 200 et seq. The Applicant is subject to the specific requirements governing the 
development, reporting, and disposition of rights to inventions and patents resulting from financial assistance 
awards located at 37 C.F.R. Part 401 and the standard patent rights clause located at 
37 C.F.R. § 401.14. 
 
 
34.        NOTICE OF FUNDING OPPORTUNITY REQUIREMENTS 
 
All of the instructions, guidance, limitations, and other conditions set forth in the Notice of Funding Opportunity 
(NOFO) for this program are incorporated here by reference in the terms and conditions of your award. The Applicant 
will comply with any such requirements set forth in the program NOFO. 
 
35.        NON-SUPPLANTING REQUIREMENT 
 
The Applicant acknowledges that supplanting is prohibited by law and will ensure that Federal funds do not  replace  
(supplant)  funds  that  have been  budgeted  for  the same  purpose  through  non-Federal sources 
 
 
36.        HOTEL AND MOTEL FIRE SAFETY ACT OF 1990 
 
In accordance with Section 6 of the Hotel and Motel Fire Safety Act of 1990, 15 U.S.C. § 2225a, the Applicant must 
ensure that all conference, meeting, convention, or training space funded in whole or in part with Federal funds 
complies with the fire prevention and control guidelines of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, as 
amended, 15 U.S.C. § 2225. 
 
37.        AMERICA ACT OF 1974 
 
The Applicant will comply with Preference for U.S. Flag Air Carriers: (air carriers holding certificates under 49 U.S.C. 
§ 41102) for international air transportation of people and property to the extent that such  service  is  available,  in  
accordance  with  the  International  Air  Transportation  Fair  Competitive Practices Act of 1974 (49 U.S.C. § 40118) and 
the interpretative guidelines issued by the Comptroller General of the United States in the March 31, 1981, 
amendment to Comptroller General Decision B- 
138942. 
 
38.        BEST PRACTICES FOR COLLECTION AND USE OF PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION (PII) 
 
DHS defines personally identifiable information (PII) as any information that permits the identity of an individual to be 
directly or indirectly inferred, including any information that is linked or linkable to that individual. The Applicant will 
have a publically-available privacy policy that describes standards on the usage and maintenance of PII they collect. 
The Applicants may also find as a useful resource the DHS Privacy Impact Assessments: Privacy Guidance and Privacy 
template respectively. 
 
39.        ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED ABROAD 
 
The Applicant will ensure that project activities carried on outside the United States are coordinated as necessary with 
appropriate government authorities and that appropriate licenses, permits, or approvals are obtained. 
 
40.        ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF FEDERAL FUNDING FROM DHS 
 
The Applicant must acknowledge their use of federal funding when issuing statements, press releases, requests for 
proposals, bid invitations, and other documents describing projects or programs funded in whole or in part with Federal 
funds. 
 
 
 
 
255
City of Las Vegas Agreement # ________________ 
City of Boulder City Agreement # 20-1890 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41.        FEDERAL LEADERSHIP ON REDUCING TEXT MESSAGING WHILE DRIVING 
 
The Applicant is encouraged to adopt and enforce policies that ban text messaging while driving as described in EO 
13513, including conducting initiatives described in Section 3(a) of the Order when on official Government business or 
when performing any work for or on behalf of the federal government. 
 
42.        FEDERAL DEBT STATUS 
 
The Applicant is required to be non-delinquent in their repayment of any Federal debt. Examples of relevant   debt  
 include   delinquent   payroll   and   other   taxes,   audit   disallowances,   and   benefit overpayments. See OMB 
Circular A-129. 
 
43.        FALSE CLAIMS ACT AND PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES 
 
The  Applicant  will  comply  with  the  requirements  of  31  U.S.C.  §§  3729-3733  which  prohibits  the submission of 
false or fraudulent claims for payment to the Federal Government. See 31 U.S.C. §§ 3801- 
3812, which detail the administrative remedies for false claims and statements made. 
 
44.        ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT 
 
The Applicant will comply with the requirements of 42 U.S.C. § 6201 which contains policies relating to energy 
efficiency that are defined in the state energy conservation plan issued in compliance with this Act. 
 
45.        DUPLICATION OF BENEFITS 
 
Any cost allocable to a particular Federal award provided for in 2 C.F.R. Part 200, Subpart E may not be charged to 
other Federal awards to overcome fund deficiencies, to avoid restrictions imposed by Federal statutes, regulations, or 
terms and conditions of the Federal awards, or for other reasons. However, this prohibition would not preclude the 
Applicant from shifting costs that are allowable under two or more Federal awards in accordance with existing Federal 
statutes, regulations, or the terms and conditions of the Federal award. 
 
46.        DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE REGULATIONS 
 
The Applicant will comply with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. §§ 701 et seq.), which requires  all  
organizations  receiving  grants  from  any  Federal  agency  agree  to  maintain  a  drug-free workplace. DHS has adopted 
the Act's implementing regulations at 2 C.F.R Part 3001. 
 
47.        COPYRIGHT 
 
The  Applicant  will  affix  the  applicable  copyright  notices  of  17  U.S.C.  §§  401  or  402  and  an 
acknowledgement of Government sponsorship (including award number) to any work first produced under Federal 
financial assistance awards. 
 
48.        OWNERSHIP OF INFORMATION 
 
Any publication, invention, patent, photograph, negative, book, drawing, record, document, or other material prepared 
by the Applicant in the performance of its obligations under this grant shall follow 2 CFR Appendix A Part 220 and 2 
CFR 200.315.  All publication, invention, patent, photograph, negative, book, drawing, record, document, or other 
256
City of Las Vegas Agreement # ________________ 
City of Boulder City Agreement # 20-1890 
 
 
 
 
material prepared by the Applicant in the performance of its obligations under this grant shall be provided to the State 
of Nevada for review and archival in the grant file. 
 
Whenever possible equipment, real property, public service announcements, etc., should reflect, “made possible 
by the Nevada Department of Public Safety Division of Emergency Management and paid for by FEMA/DHS.” 
(example only applies to Homeland Security Grant Program grants, for other grants please see DEM). In order to 
be reimbursable, all items above must be approved prior to procurement. Federal granting agency retains 
ownership of all publications, inventions, patents, photographs, negatives, books, drawings, records, documents 
or other material prepared by the sub-grantee in the performance of its obligations to the grant. 
 
49.        SUBGRANTEE MONITORING 
 
The  Applicant  agrees  to  participate  in  DEM’s  annual  monitoring  visits  and  to  follow  up  and  take corrective action 
on all identified non-conformances and observations with action, which includes, but is not limited to, the submission and 
implementation of corrective action plans to the DEM. 
 
50.     ASSIGNMENT AND DELEGATION 
 
The Applicant shall neither assign, transfer, nor delegate any rights, obligations or duties under this Notice of Grant  Award 
without  prior  approval  of  the  DEM,  which  includes  sub-sub  granting  funds  without  prior knowledge or written approval of 
DEM. 
 
51.     INDEMNIFICATION AND DEFENSE 
 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Applicant shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend, not excluding  the  
State’s  right  to  participate,  the  State  from  and  against  all  liability,  claims,  actions, damages, losses, and 
expenses, including,  without limitation, reasonable attorneys’  fees and  costs, arising out of any breach of the 
obligations of Applicant under this Agreement, or any alleged negligent or  willful  acts  or  omissions  of  the  Applicant, 
 its  officers,  employees  and  agents.  The  Applicant’s obligation to indemnify the State shall apply in all cases except 
for claims arising solely from the State’s own negligence or willful misconduct. The Applicant waives any rights of 
subrogation against the State. The Applicant’s duty to defend begins when the State requests defense of any claim 
arising from this Agreement. 
 
52.     TERMINATION 
 
The DEM retains the right to terminate a sub-grant, for cause, at any time before completion of the grant period 
when it has determined that the sub-grantee has failed to comply with the conditions of these assurances. 
 
a.           The DEM reserves the right to terminate the grant in whole or in part due to the failure of the 
sub-grantee to comply with any term or condition of the signed and agreed upon assurances, failure to 
implement audit/monitoring  recommendations within the prescribed period of time, failure to 
communicate with or respond to any State Administrative Agency (SAA) request or communication, to 
acquire and maintain all required insurance policies, bonds, licenses, permits and certifications or 
to make satisfactory progress in performing the program, financial and administrative requirements of 
the grant. 
b.           The DEM staff shall provide written notice of the termination and the reasons for such 
actions to the sub-grantee. 
c.           The DEM may, upon termination of the award, procure, on terms and in the manner that it 
deems appropriate, materials or services to replace those described in the project          description of 
257
City of Las Vegas Agreement # ________________ 
City of Boulder City Agreement # 20-1890 
 
 
 
 
the grant award. The sub-grantee shall be liable to the DEM for any excess costs incurred by the DEM in 
procuring equivalent materials or services in substitution for materials or services described in the 
project description of the grant award. 
 
258
B1877 Consideration Title 1, Chapter 9 Financial Administration
SUBJECT:
For possible action: Consideration of Bill No. 1877, an Ordinance of the City of Boulder City,
Nevada to amend Title 1, Chapter 9 of the City Code - Financial Administration – by amending
Section 1-9-9 to update General Fund unassigned fund balance and the minimum operating
reserves in other operating funds of the City
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
ATTACHMENTS:
Description
Type
Staff Report - B1877
Cover Memo
Attachment 1 - Presentation
Presentation
Attachment 2 - Bill No. 1877 Ordinance
Ordinance
Exhibit A: Code Amendment
Backup Material
259
City Council Meeting 
June 9, 2020 
Item No. 6 
Staff Report 
 
 
TO:  
 
Mayor and City Council  
 
FROM:  
Diane Pelletier, Finance Director  
 
 
DATE: 
 
June 9, 2020 
 
SUBJECT:  Consideration of Bill No. 1877, an ordinance of the City of 
Boulder City amending Title 1, Chapter 9 – Financial Administration – 
by amending section 1-9-9 to amend the City’s Unassigned Fund 
Balance Policy. 
 
Business Impact Statement:  This action will not have a significant 
economic impact on business and will not directly restrict the 
formation, operation, or expansion of a business. 
 
Action Requested:  That the City Council consider Bill No. 1877.  
 
Overview: 
 
• Section 1-9-9 All Funds Unassigned Fund Balance Policy. Effective 
July 1, 2019 NRS 354.6241 was updated to reduce the recommended 
budgeted ending fund balance from 25 percent to 16.67 percent of 
annual budgeted expenditures in the General Fund. 
• The City’s current fund balance policy is at least 20 percent and are 
currently fully funded to the stated 20 percent of budgeted 
expenditures/expenses. 
• Staff recommends that with the addition of the five Special 
Revenue Funds that the budgeted ending unassigned fund balance 
should be reduced in General Fund. 
• Staff recommends an unassigned fund balance between 8.33 
and 16.67 percent (1-2 months) of the annual budgeted 
expenditures in the General Fund. 
• Staff recommends that all other operating funds maintain an 
operating reserve account of at least 20 percent of the annual 
budgeted expenditures/expenses. 
 
 
 
 
BOULDER CITY 
CITY COUNCIL 
 
MAYOR 
KIERNAN MCMANUS 
 
COUNCIL MEMBERS: 
JAMES HOWARD ADAMS 
CLAUDIA M.BRIDGES 
TRACY FOLDA 
WARREN HARHAY 
 
◄ ● ► 
 
MEETING LOCATION: 
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBER 
401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NV 89005 
 
MAILING ADDRESS: 
401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NV 89005 
 
WEBPAGE:  
WWW.BCNV.ORG 
 
◄ ● ► 
 
CITY MANAGER: 
ALFONSO NOYOLA, ICMA-CM 
 
CITY ATTORNEY: 
STEVEN L. MORRIS, ESQ 
 
CITY CLERK: 
LORENE KRUMM, MMC, CPO 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR: 
MICHAEL MAYS, AICP 
 
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: 
KEEGAN LITTRELL, P.E. 
 
UTILITIES DIRECTOR: 
DENNIS PORTER, P.E. 
 
POLICE CHIEF: 
TIM SHEA 
 
INTERIM FIRE CHIEF: 
STEVE WALTON 
 
FINANCE DIRECTOR: 
DIANE PELLETIER, CPA 
 
PARKS & RECREATION DIRECTOR 
ROGER HALL 
260
Background Information:   
 
1-9-9 ALL FUNDS UNASSIGNED FUND BALANCE POLICY 
 
Maintaining an adequate fund balance is necessary to ensure financial stability of the 
City. With the five new governmental Special Revenue Funds the City has restricted or 
committed portions of the previously unassigned General Fund balance to allow 
continuation of a “pay as you go” financial policy. The City’s previous policy of maintaining 
a 20 percent minimum of the annual budgeted expenditures in the General Fund is now 
considered higher than recommended in NRS 354.6241.   
 
NRS 354.6241  Contents of statement provided by local government to auditor; expenditure of 
excess reserves in certain funds; restrictions on use of budgeted ending fund balance in certain 
circumstances. [Effective July 1, 2021.] 
      1.  The statement required by paragraph (a) of subsection 5 of NRS 354.624 must indicate for 
each fund set forth in that paragraph: 
      (a) Whether the fund is being used in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. 
      (b) Whether the fund is being administered in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
procedures. 
      (c) Whether the reserve in the fund is limited to an amount that is reasonable and necessary to 
carry out the purposes of the fund. 
      (d) The sources of revenues available for the fund during the fiscal year, including transfers from 
any other funds. 
      (e) The statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to the fund. 
      (f) The balance and retained earnings of the fund. 
      2.  Except as otherwise provided in subsections 3 and 4 and NRS 354.59891 and 354.613, to the 
extent that the reserve in any fund set forth in paragraph (a) of subsection 5 of NRS 354.624 exceeds 
the amount that is reasonable and necessary to carry out the purposes for which the fund was created, 
the reserve may be expended by the local government pursuant to the provisions of chapter 288 of 
NRS. 
      3.  For any local government other than a school district, for the purposes of chapter 288 of 
NRS, a budgeted ending fund balance of not more than 16.67 percent of the total budgeted 
expenditures, less capital outlay, for a general fund: 
      (a) Is not subject to negotiations with an employee organization; and 
      (b) Must not be considered by a fact finder or arbitrator in determining the financial ability of the 
local government to pay compensation or monetary benefits. 
      4.  For a school district, for the purposes of chapter 288 of NRS, a budgeted ending fund balance 
of not more than 16.6 percent of the total budgeted expenditures for a county school district fund: 
      (a) Is not subject to negotiations with an employee organization; and 
      (b) Must not be considered by a fact finder or arbitrator in determining the financial ability of the 
local government to pay compensation or monetary benefits. 
      (Added to NRS by 1995, 1934; A 2001, 387, 1812; 2011, 1690; 2015, 2967; 2019, 3608, 4240, 
effective July 1, 2021) 
Continuation of the “pay as you go” financial policy can also be achieved by striving to 
maintain minimum operating reserves in the other operating funds of the City that do not 
have access to the Special Revenue Funds. Staff recommends that these funds maintain 
an operating reserve account equal to at least 20 percent of annual budgeted 
expenditures/expenses. The current funds that would fall under this policy would be More 
Cops, Crimes Prevention, Cemetery, Airport, Utilities and RDA. Therefore, Staff proposes 
to update the language in 1-9-9 to separate the policies of the General Fund from the 
other funds for clarity.  
261
 
Financial:  The establishment of these fund balance policies will ensure that the City can 
meet its future obligations without further impacting other operations.   
 
Boulder City Strategic Plan Goal: Goal A of the City’s Strategic Plan calls for sound 
financial practices.  The establishment of the fund balance requirements is recognized as 
a best practice by the Government Financial Officers Association (“GFOA”).  The GFOA 
is nationally recognized as an expert in local government financial policies for sound 
financial practices. 
 
Department Recommendation:  The Finance Department staff respectfully requests that 
the City Council consider Bill No. 1877. 
 
Attachment: 
Attachment 1: Presentation 
Attachment 2: Bill No. 1877 
Exhibit A: Code Amendment Text for Title 1, Chapter 9, Financial Administration 
262
Amendments to Title 1 
Chapter 9 - Financial 
Administration
Council Meeting June 9, 2020
263
Suggested Amendments
• 1-9-9A Cash flow reserve balance between 8.33 and 
16.67 percent (1-2 months) of the annual budgeted 
expenditures in the General Fund.
• 1-9-9B All operating funds other than the General Fund 
maintain a cash flow reserve balance equal to at least 
twenty percent (20%) of the annual budgeted operating 
expenditures/expenses in the respective fund.
264
NRS 354.6241
• Adequate fund balance is necessary to ensure financial 
stability.
• The City added five Special Revenue Funds to “assign” funds 
for specific purposes rather than leaving the amounts  
unassigned in the General Fund.
• NRS 354.6241 recommends 16.67 percent of budgeted 
expenditures as the ending fund balance for the General Fund.
FY21 Budget 
Unassigned Fund 
Balance Minimum 
Unassigned Fund 
Balance Maximum 
FY21 Estimated Budgeted 
Unassigned Fund Balance
Below Maximum
Above Minimum
GENERAL FUND
$             34,694,328.00 $            2,890,037.52 $            5,783,544.48 $                      3,371,358.00 $              (2,412,186.48) $                     481,320.48 
265
Examples
FY2019 Financial 
Statements
Budgeted Expenditures 
Unassigned 
Percent 
Mesquite
$             24,944,974.00 
$            2,255,216.00 
9.04%
City of N Las Vegas
$           129,510,357.00 
$          28,756,362.00 
22.20%
City of Las Vegas
$           551,211,367.00 
$        122,158,758.00 
22.16%
Henderson
$           275,897,515.00 
$          28,116,220.00 
10.19%
266
Other Operating Funds
• More Cops, Crimes Prevention, Cemetery, Airport, 
Utilities, and RDA
• Maintain an operating reserve equal to at least 20 percent of the 
annual budgeted expenditures/expenses.
Fund
FY21 Budget 
Operating Reserve 
Minimum 
Operating Reserve 
Balance *
Difference Above  (Below) 
Minimum
MORE COPS
$                   838,385.42 $                167,677.08 $               176,174.00 
$                               8,496.92 
CRIMES PREVENTION
$                   275,707.90 $                  55,141.58 $                  51,493.00 
$                            (3,648.58)
CEMETERY FUND
$                   150,405.00 $                  30,081.00 $                                 -
$                          (30,081.00)
AIRPORT FUND
$                   836,976.15 $                167,395.23 $               151,477.00 
$                          (15,918.23)
ELECTRIC UTILITY
$             10,914,122.42 $            2,182,824.48 $            2,241,110.00 
$                            58,285.52 
WATER UTILITY
$                9,317,697.12 $            1,863,539.42 $            1,531,801.00 
$                        (331,738.42)
WASTEWATER UTILITY
$                1,115,385.51 $                223,077.10 $               233,863.00 
$                            10,785.90 
LANDFILL UTILITY
$                1,214,205.89 $                242,841.18 $               325,173.00 
$                            82,331.82 
RDA
$                   815,791.60 $                163,158.32 $               157,250.00 
$                            (5,908.32)
* Operating Reserve Balances will not be increased to the 20% minimum until after July 1, 2020 to correspond
with the new fiscal year budget.
267
Attachment 1 
 
Bill No. 1877 
Introduced by:  ______________________ 
 
 
 
 
O R D I N A N C E   N O.   XXXX 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BOULDER CITY AMENDING TITLE 1, CHAPTER 9 
– FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION – BY AMENDING SECTION 1-9-9 TO AMEND THE 
GENERAL FUND UNASSIGNED FUND BALANCE POLICY AND THE MINIMUM 
OPERATING RESERVES IN OTHER OPERATING FUNDS OF THE CITY. 
 
 
The City Council of Boulder City do ordain: 
 
Section 1. 
That Boulder City, Nevada (“City”) does by this Ordinance hereby amend 
Title 1, Chapter 9 – Financial Administration – by amending section 1-9-9 to amend the 
unassigned fund balance policy, as shown on the attached Exhibit “A”. 
 
Section 2. 
VALIDITY.  Each section and each provision or requirement of any section 
of this ordinance shall be considered separable and the invalidity of any portion shall not 
affect the validity or enforceability of any other portion. 
 
Section 3. 
PUBLICATION.  The City Clerk shall cause this Ordinance to be published 
in summary on Friday, the _____ day of ___________ 2020, in the Las Vegas Review 
Journal, a daily newspaper, published in Las Vegas, Nevada. 
 
Section 4. 
EFFECTIVE.  This Ordinance shall become effective, after its approval and 
publication, on the ____ day of _____________ 2020. 
 
APPROVED:  
 
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
________________________________  
__________________________ 
Kiernan McManus, Mayor  
 
 
Lorene Krumm, City Clerk 
268
 
 
Bill 1877 
Page 2 
 
 
 
The foregoing Ordinance was first proposed and read by title to the City Council on the                      
26th   day of     May    , 2020, which was a regular meeting; thereafter, on the _9th_ day 
of __June___ 2020, a regular meeting was held and the proposed Ordinance was 
adopted by the following vote: 
 
 
VOTING AYE: 
 
 
VOTING NAY: 
 
 
ABSENT: 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED:  
 
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
____________________________ 
Kiernan McManus, Mayor  
 
 
Lorene Krumm, City Clerk 
269
Exhibit A 
 
1-9-9: ALL FUNDS UNASSIGNED FUND BALANCE POLICY: 
 
A.  The city shall strive to maintain in all funds the General Fund a cash flow reserve balance 
between 8.33 percent and 16.67 percent equal to at least twenty percent (20%) of the annual 
budgeted general fund operating expenditures (excluding capital projects) of the ensuing 
fiscal year to provide reasonable assurance that the city will remain solvent and be able to 
meet unforeseen emergencies. These funds will be considered as unassigned. (Ord. 1445, 
8-9-2011, eff. 9-1-2011) 
 
B.  The city shall strive to maintain in all operating funds other than the General Fund a cash 
flow reserve balance equal to at least twenty percent (20%) of the annual budgeted 
operating expenditures/expenses (excluding capital projects) of the ensuing fiscal year to 
provide reasonable assurance that the city will remain solvent and be able to meet 
unforeseen emergencies. An amount up to twenty percent (20%) will be held in an operating 
reserve account.  
270
Presentation from the Fire Chief to provide the Fire Department's annual report
SUBJECT:
Presentation from the Fire Chief to provide the Fire Department's annual report
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
ATTACHMENTS:
Description
Type
Item 7 Staff Report
Cover Memo
Fire Department Annual Report - 2020
Backup Material
271
City Council Meeting 
June 9, 2020 
Item No. 7 
 
Staff Report 
 
 
TO: 
Alfonso Noyola, City Manager 
 
FROM: 
Will Gray, Fire Chief 
 
DATE: 
June 9, 2020 
 
 
SUBJECT:  Presentation from the Fire Chief to provide the Fire 
Department’s annual report 
 
Business Impact Statement:  This action will not have a significant 
economic impact on business and will not directly restrict the 
formation, operation, or expansion of a business. 
 
Action Requested:  That the City Council receive the presentation from 
the Fire Chief to provide the Fire Department’s annual report. 
 
Overview: 
 
• Presentation will be provided by Will Gray, Fire Chief. 
 
Background Information: A PowerPoint presentation regarding the Fire 
Department’s annual report is attached.  The presentation will provide 
a brief overview of the operational status of the organization, an 
update on current projects and grant application, the reserve program, 
and EMS initiatives. 
 
Department Recommendation:  The Fire Department respectfully 
request that the City Council receive the presentation from the Fire 
Chief to provide the Fire Department’s annual report. 
 
Attachments: 
PowerPoint Presentation 
 
 
 
 
 
BOULDER CITY 
CITY COUNCIL 
 
MAYOR 
KIERNAN MCMANUS 
 
COUNCIL MEMBERS: 
JAMES HOWARD ADAMS 
CLAUDIA M. BRIDGES 
TRACY FOLDA 
JUDITH A. HOSKINS 
◄ ● ► 
 
MEETING LOCATION: 
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBER 
401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NV 89005 
 
MAILING ADDRESS: 
401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NV 89005 
 
WEBPAGE:  
WWW.BCNV.ORG 
 
◄ ● ► 
 
CITY MANAGER: 
ALFONSO NOYOLA, ICMA-CM 
 
CITY ATTORNEY: 
STEVE MORRIS, ESQ 
 
CITY CLERK: 
LORENE KRUMM, MMC, CPO 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DIRECTOR: 
BRYCE BOLDT 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR: 
MICHAEL MAYES, AICP 
 
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: 
KEEGAN LITTRELL, P.E. 
 
UTILITIES DIRECTOR: 
DENNIS PORTER, P.E. 
 
POLICE CHIEF: 
TIM SHEA 
 
FIRE CHIEF: 
WILL GRAY, CFO 
 
FINANCE DIRECTOR: 
Diane Pelletier, CPA 
 
PARKS & RECREATION DIRECTOR 
ROGER HALL 
272
Fire Department
Annual Report
June 9, 2020
273
Department Overview
• Operates with Twenty-one Full-time Personnel/Seven
per shift.
• Five Fully Trained Reserves (Increase of 3 YTD)
• Personnel Staff One Station (24 / 7 / 365)
• One Engine (3) and Two Rescues (2).
• Third Rescue (Staffing Dependent)
Sustain A High Level Of Public Safety Services
274
Department Overview
• Services Provided:
• Advanced Life Support EMS Transport
• Fire Suppression
• Auto Extrication
• Community Risk Reduction - Revised
• Fire Inspection and Plan Review
• Risk Reduction Education - New
Sustain A High Level Of Public Safety Services
275
Department Overview
• Calls for Service in 2019:
Total Calls for Service – 2543
• Advanced Life Support EMS Transport – 40.6%
• Basic Life Support EMS – 27.1%
• False Alarm Calls – 8.8%
• Fire Suppression – 1.6% (5 Structure Fires)
*Civilian Fire Injuries - 1
• Hazardous Condition – 1.2%
*Fire Fatalities - 0
• Service Calls – 2.2%
• Other – 18.5%
• Other Duties
• Fire Inspections – 344
• Plan Reviews – Not currently tracked
• Risk Reduction Education – Not currently tracked
Sustain A High Level Of Public Safety Services
276
Project Updates
• Station Renovation
Completed at the beginning of 2020.
• Fire Engine
Arrived in mid-February and was placed in service in early 
March of this year.
• Ambulance
Anticipated completion date is at the beginning of 2021.
Sustain A High Level Of Public Safety Services
277
Grants
• FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grant – Self-Contained 
Breathing Apparatus
• The department plans to apply for a grant to cover the costs of
new self-contained breathing apparatus.
The grant request
would be for $160,000.
Sustain A High Level Of Public Safety Services
278
Medicaid Reimbursement Program
• Year to Date Reimbursement
➢The City has received approximately $795,426 in Medicaid
Reimbursements for FY16 – FY18 from the State.
• Pending Reimbursements
➢Waiting for the State to process FY19 reimbursements of
about $180,000.
➢Anticipate approximately $250,000 for FY20
Sustain A High Level Of Public Safety Services
279
Changes in the Department
• Revised Response Policies 
• Reviewing and Revising Department Policies
• Redeveloping Fire Reserve Program (Goal of 25-30)
• Improving and Modernizing the Training Program
• Community Risk Assessment – Underway
• Data Analysis Improvements
Sustain A High Level Of Public Safety Services
280
Questions
Sustain A High Level Of Public Safety Services
281
Discuss/Approve Hangar Rental Agreement
SUBJECT:
For Possible Action: Discussion and approval of hangar rental agreement format
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
ATTACHMENTS:
Description
Type
Item 8 Staff Report
Cover Memo
Final Regular Month to Month Hangar Rent Agreement
Cover Memo
282
 
City Council Meeting 
 
June 9, 2020 
 
Item No. 08 
 
 
Staff Report 
 
 
TO:  
Bryce Boldt, Administrative Services Director 
 
FROM: Willy Williamson, Airport Manager 
 
DATE: 
June 2, 2020 
 
SUBJECT:  For Possible Action: Discussion and approval of hangar rental 
agreement format.  
______________________________________________________________ 
   
Business Impact Statement:   
 
This item does not meet the requirements for a business impact statement as 
prescribed in NRS 237.060. 
 
Action Requested:   
 
That the City Council approve the hangar rental agreement format 
 
Overview: 
 
• On July 25, 1989, the City Council passed Resolution No. 1706 entering 
into Agreement No. 89-85 with the NUNNO Corporation for the 
construction of aircraft storage hangars for an initial term of 20 years with a 
10-year option, and now expiring July 2, 2020. 
• On May 19, 2020, the City Council decided to allow Agreement No. 89-
85 to proceed to expiration and reversion of the “NUNNO” Hangars to City 
ownership. 
• On May 19, 2020, the City Council reviewed hangar rent agreement 
options and directed staff to proceed with the regular hangar rent agreement. 
 
Background Information:   
 
During the 5/19/2020 Special City Council Meeting, Council reviewed 
options of leases and rent agreements for use after the Nunno Hangars revert 
to City ownership in July 2020.   
 
 
BOULDER CITY 
CITY COUNCIL 
 
MAYOR 
KIERNAN MCMANUS 
 
COUNCIL MEMBERS: 
JAMES HOWARD ADAMS 
CLAUDIA M.BRIDGES 
TRACY FOLDA 
JUDITH A. HOSKINS 
◄ ● ► 
 
MEETING LOCATION: 
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBER 
401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NV 89005 
 
MAILING ADDRESS: 
401 CALIFORNIA AVENUE 
BOULDER CITY, NV 89005 
 
WEBPAGE:  
WWW.BCNV.ORG 
 
◄ ● ► 
 
CITY MANAGER: 
ALFONSO NOYOLA, ICMA-CM 
 
CITY ATTORNEY: 
STEVEN L. MORRIS, ESQ 
 
CITY CLERK: 
LORENE KRUMM, MMC, CPO 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DIRECTOR: 
BRYCE BOLDT 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR: 
MICHAEL MAYS, AICP 
 
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: 
KEEGAN LITTRELL, P.E. 
 
UTILITIES DIRECTOR: 
DENNIS PORTER, P.E. 
 
POLICE CHIEF: 
TIM SHEA 
 
FIRE CHIEF: 
WILLIAM GRAY, CFO 
 
FINANCE DIRECTOR: 
DIANE PELLETIER, CPA 
 
PARKS & RECREATION DIRECTOR 
ROGER HALL 
283
  
City Staff had investigated a variety of options for hangar rental should the hangars revert to City 
ownership.  For many reasons, non-standard rent agreements would not work well at the airport.  
Staff concluded that a regular month-to-month hangar rent agreement would work well, but an 
option of a Triple-Net should be presented as an alternative. 
 
Staff presented drafts of the regular month-to-month and triple-net rent agreements to City 
Council at the May 19, 2020 Special City Council Meeting.  City Council reviewed the 
information presented and reviewed the draft rent agreements.  City Council determined that a 
“Regular” Month-to-Month Rent Agreement would be the best option for the airport tenants and 
the City.  City Council directed Staff to move forward with the regular month-to-month rent 
agreement. 
 
Staff will present the regular month-to-month rent agreement in its final format for City Council 
approval at the June 9, 2020 City Council Meeting. 
 
Financial:  
 
There is no impact to the Boulder City General Fund, but will increase revenues in the Airport 
Enterprise Fund. 
 
Boulder City Strategic Plan Goal:   
 
Goal A.  Achieve Prudent Financial Stewardship by being as self-sustaining as possible. 
 
Department Recommendation:   
 
The Airport Staff respectfully requests that the City Council approve the regular month-to-month 
hangar rent agreement is its present format. 
 
Attachment: 
Regular Month-to-Month Hangar Rent Agreement  
 
 
284
HANGAR _____RENT AGREEMENT 
Boulder City Municipal Airport 
Boulder City, NV 
 
1. Parties:    
The parties to this rental agreement shall be the City of Boulder City, a municipal corporation of the 
State of Nevada, as Landlord, hereinafter referred to as the “City,” and                                             , 
in their personal and individual capacity as hereinafter referred to as “Tenant.” 
2. Premises:   
The above-named Tenant agrees to rent City owned Hangar,               , located at the Boulder City 
Airport. 
3. Rental Amount:   
The monthly rent shall be $                    per month; first month’s rent payable in advance of 
occupancy.  Rent rate is based on a square footage pricing.  The Tenant further agrees to pay an 
initial security deposit of $                   , and any other additional city, state or federal taxes payable 
or which may become payable by the City.  Rents owing under the terms of this Rent Agreement 
shall be paid in advance on or before the 1st day of every month.  The Tenant is responsible for 
paying all rents, regardless of whether the City sent to Tenant or Tenant received any invoice or 
billing from the City. 
3.1 Escalation:   
3.1.1 Escalation Date.  Beginning July 1, 2021, and every year thereafter on July 1st, the 
rent rate shall have an escalation.  The rent rate increase based on the consumer price 
index (CPI) as reported for the month of September prior to the rent escalation date, but 
shall not be less than two percent (2%) or more than six percent (6%) in any given year. 
3.1.2 Reassessment of Rent Amount.  The City may, at its sole discretion, increase the 
rent rate every fifth year if the comparative analysis indicates the Airport’s rates are 5% 
or more below, either an appraisal or the comparative airports within a 100NM radius of 
Boulder City.  
3.1.3  Notification.  Tenants will be notified of the rate increase thirty (30) days prior to 
the effective date of any change made under this section 3.1.2. 
3.2 Disabled Airport Access:  If any payment is late by more than thirty (30) days, the City 
may disable the Tenant’s airport access card(s).   
285
3.3 Late Payment Termination.  If any payment is late by more than thirty (30) days, City 
shall have the right to terminate this Agreement immediately.  
3.4 Habitual Late Payment Termination.  If Tenant is late making payments more than 
three (3) times in any twenty-four (24) month period, the City may terminate this agreement 
with 30 days’ notice. 
4. Term:   
This Rent Agreement shall be on a month-to-month basis, commencing on ___________________ ,                          
and shall be subject to termination by either party providing written notice to the other (30) days or 
more in advance of the date on which termination takes place. The City in its sole right may, with or 
without justification, terminate this Rent Agreement at any time, except for an unlawful reason. 
5. Occupancy of Premises: 
Tenant is entitled to take possession of the premises only after the Rent Agreement is fully executed 
and returned to the Airport Manager.  Tenant shall utilize an airport issued lock to be used for 
access on one of the exterior doors. 
6. Airport Access Cards: 
City authorizes the Tenant access to Zone 3 of the Aircraft Operating Area (AOA).  The Tenant 
shall not access Zone 1 or 2 of the AOA.  The City reserves the right to evaluate and redefine these 
zones at any time. Tenant shall be responsible for all actions, damage, infractions, or other 
trespasses that may be committed by Tenant’s visitors. 
The Tenant will be provided an airport access card.  The Tenant’s spouse may also be provided an 
access card, upon request, and at City’s sole discretion.  The City may consider issuance of 
additional access cards to joint or fractional aircraft owners. 
7. Use of Premises:   
Commercial activities are not permitted. 
Tenant agrees that they will utilize the hangar for the storage of Tenant-owned Aircraft, and for no 
other purpose than reasonable de minimis storage of items to support the aircraft and other 
aeronautical activities not expressly prohibited in the Rent Agreement. Preventive maintenance, as 
outlined in FAR Part 43 Appendix A (c), incorporated by reference, may be accomplished solely by 
the aircraft owner on their aircraft in the hangar. The Airport Manager may approve construction 
of experimental aircraft, by the aircraft owner, on a case-by-case basis.  
If the Tenant sells their aircraft with the intent of purchasing another aircraft, the Tenant may, 
with prior written approval from the Airport Manager, continue to rent the hangar for up to six 
(6) months for the purchase of another aircraft. If the Tenant has not purchased an aircraft within 
six (6) months, this Rent Agreement shall terminate.  Furthermore, during this period the Tenant 
shall not use the hangar for any purpose other than the aforementioned aeronautical uses. 
286
Storage of land vehicles or motorcycles is approved for up to 14 consecutive days while actively 
flying the Tenant-owned Aircraft. Storage in excess of 14 days is prohibited and grounds for 
immediate eviction. 
8. Ownership of aircraft:   
The Tenant shall be the owner of the aircraft stored in the hangar and shall provide a copy of the 
registration and airworthiness certificate.  In the event that multiple parties own an aircraft, each 
owner shall sign and execute this Rent Agreement for the hangar at the time of entry into this Rent 
Agreement.  Aircraft ownership shall be established by the parties name(s) appearing on the Federal 
Aviation Administration Form, AC Form 8050-3 – Certificate of Aircraft Registration, a copy of 
which shall be attached to this Rent Agreement. If aircraft ownership is Fractional or a Flying Club, 
all owners and/or members shall sign and execute this Rent Agreement.  
If the aircraft ownership changes, this Rent Agreement shall immediately terminate.  If a member of 
a fractional or flying club changes, any and all additional and current owners must verify the 
ownership change, after which the new owner shall sign and execute a Rent Agreement addendum 
within 30 days of the time of sale.  A new Aircraft Registration must be provided within 30 days.   
9. Airworthiness Certificate:   
Tenant’s aircraft shall have an airworthiness certificate and must be in operable condition.  
Experimental aircraft are granted a six (6) month grace period to obtain an airworthiness 
certificate if the aircraft is still under construction.  If the Tenant has not obtained an 
airworthiness certificate for the experimental aircraft within six (6) months, the City may 
terminate this Rent Agreement for noncompliance with 30 days’ notice.  The Airport Manager 
has the sole decision authority to determine which aircraft, certificated or experimental, meet the 
criteria of this section.  
10. Cleaning:   
The Tenant is responsible for the cleanliness of the premises, including all door tracks, etc. If any 
items or debris are left in the hangar or oil or substances on the floor, all costs pertaining to cleaning 
the hangar shall be the liability of the tenant, and the City shall charge the Tenant the full amount 
plus a $100 administrative fee.  
11. Alterations and Improvements:   
Title to all improvements constructed, installed, or attached to the premises shall rest in the City. 
Tenant shall make no additional improvements, alterations, additions, modifications or 
replacements to either the interior or exterior of the hangar, without first obtaining the Airport 
Manager’s prior written approval, including, but not limited to:  
• Modifying existing wiring, installing additional outlets, fixtures, or the like therein; or 
• Painting, removing, modifying, bending, drilling, cutting or otherwise altering or 
modifying any part of the hangar; or 
 
287
• Attaching any hoisting or holding mechanism (i.e. chain-fall, block, tackle, or any other 
hoisting device) to any part of the hangar or passing any such mechanism over the trusses 
or braces. 
12. Maintenance and Repair:   
Tenant’s use and occupancy of the hangar shall be without cost or expense to the City.   
Tenant shall reasonably maintain and keep in a good state of repair, free of any debris or waste 
materials, the hangar and the facility therein.  Tenant shall at all times keep the adjacent apron, 
taxiway or pavement and the hangar door free of any and all obstructions or interferences to 
adjacent hangars. 
If the hangar requires repair, Tenant shall contact the Airport Manager within 5 days of discovery.  
13. Laws, ordinances, etc.:   
Tenant shall observe and obey all laws, ordinances, regulations, rules, and policies of the federal, 
state, county, and municipal governments, which may be applicable to their operation at Boulder 
City Airport. 
14. Airport Rules, Standards, Regulations, and Policies:   
During the terms of this Rent Agreement, the City shall have the right, and shall adopt and enforce 
rules, standards, regulations, and policies, which may be amended from time to time, with respect to 
the use of Boulder City Airport and related facilities, which Tenant agrees to observe and obey, 
including but not limited to: 
• All hot work is prohibited in the hangars.  This includes, but is not limited to, welding, 
brazing, grinding, cutting, soldering, and use of a heat gun.  
• Spray painting or use of other hazardous chemicals is prohibited. 
• Storage or use of flammable and/or volatile liquids/materials such as paint, dope, or aircraft 
and parts/cleaning fluids in or about the hangar is prohibited, except that two cases of 
aircraft engine oil and typical spray cleaners may be stored in the hangar. 
• Preventive maintenance, as outlined in FAR Part 43 Appendix A (c), incorporated by 
reference, may be accomplished solely by the aircraft owner on their aircraft in the Hangar.  
All other types of repairing, overhauling, or maintenance on aircraft, land vehicles or boats, 
etc. are prohibited. 
• Airport Manager may approve, on a case-by-case basis, construction of Experimental 
Aircraft.  Approval must be in writing prior to the beginning of the construction project. 
• No heaters shall be placed or used unattended within the hangar. 
• Tenant shall not hang, attach or mount anything to any portion of the structure and shall not 
drill holes in any portion of the structure. 
• Tenant shall not drill holes in or modify the floor. 
• Aircraft engines shall not be operated inside the hangars. 
• Hangar doors shall remain closed at all times when not in use. 
• Tenant shall provide one fire extinguisher type 2A-10-BC with current inspections.  
288
• Tenant shall provide and utilize a drip pan under the aircraft. 
15. Inspection:   
City employees and agents shall have the right to inspect with or without notice.  Reasonable 
notice may be given prior to inspection; except in the case of emergencies.  This includes the 
hangar interior to ensure the Tenant’s safe activity, compliance with all of the terms, covenants, 
and conditions of this Agreement, and the FAA Grant assurances and other federal, state, and 
local regulation. Tenant hereby consents to allow the City such access and shall use an airport 
issued lock. 
16. Warranties/Guarantees:   
The City makes no warranty or guarantee of any nature whatsoever concerning the condition of the 
hangar, including the physical condition thereof, or any condition which may affect the hangar or 
the Airport in general, and it is agreed that the City will not be responsible for any loss, damage or 
costs which may be incurred by Tenant by reason of any such condition or conditions. 
17. Condition of premises:  
Tenant accepts the hangar in “as is” condition, and shall maintain and utilize all premises covered 
by this Agreement in a first-class manner and shall keep such premises in a safe, clean, orderly, and 
inviting condition at all times. 
18. Indemnity:   
Tenant agrees fully to indemnify, and save and hold harmless the City from and against all claims 
and actions and all expenses incidental to the investigation and defense thereof, based upon or 
arising out of damage or injuries to third persons or their property, or to the hangar, caused by the 
fault or negligence or alleged fault or negligence of Tenant, its agents or employees, in the use or 
occupancy by Tenant of the premises covered by this agreement; provided; however, that Tenant 
shall not be liable for any injury or damage or loss occasioned by the sole negligence of the City, its 
agents or employees. 
19. Insurance:  
Lessee agrees to carry and keep in force, general liability insurance covering bodily and personal 
injury, property damage and contractual liability, and such other insurance as may be necessary to 
protect the City from such claims and actions.  Without limiting its liability, Tenant agrees to 
maintain with insurance underwriters satisfactory to the City, a standard form of policy of insurance 
in an amount of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence. This required amount of coverage may 
change if additional amounts of coverage are required by risk analysis, or if the City develops 
standardized insurance fee schedules. 
The Tenant shall also procure and keep in force, Fire and Extended Coverage Insurance, upon 
Tenant’s property to the full insurable value thereof and shall furnish the City with evidence that 
such coverage has been procured and is being maintained in full force and effect for the entirety of 
the lease agreement.   
289
The City of Boulder City shall be listed as an additional named insured on all policies, and the 
Tenant shall furnish the City with evidence that such coverage has been procured and is being 
maintained in full force and effect for the entirety of the lease agreement.  If the Tenant fails to 
maintain any policy, the City may terminate this rent agreement for noncompliance. 
20. Assignment, Transfer, and Subletting:   
Tenant shall not at any time assign, sublet the hangar, or transfer any rights to this agreement or any 
of the rights, privileges, uses, or interests arising hereunder.  Should Tenant sell the Tenant-owned 
aircraft stored in the hangar outright, this Rent Agreement shall automatically terminate, unless 
Tenant is purchasing another aircraft and receives prior written authorization from the Airport 
Manager. 
21. Re-delivery:   
Upon cancellation or termination of this Rent Agreement, the Tenant shall have no further right or 
interest in the hangar, and the City shall be entitled to have the hangar returned immediately in a 
clean and rentable condition.    
22. Non-waiver:   
Any waiver of any breach of covenants herein contained to be kept and performed by either party 
hereto, shall not be deemed or considered as a continuing waiver and shall not operate to bar or 
prevent the other party hereto from declaring a forfeiture, termination or cancellation for any 
succeeding breach either of the same condition or covenant or otherwise.  Acceptance of payment of 
rental shall not be deemed a waiver. 
23. Attorney Fees:   
In the event, any action, suit or proceeding is brought to collect the rent due or to become due 
hereunder, or any portion thereof or to take possession of said premises or to enforce compliance 
with this agreement or for failure to observe any of the covenants of this agreement, Tenant agrees 
to pay the City such sum as the Court may adjudge reasonable as attorney costs and fees to be 
allowed in said suit, action or proceeding, and in the event of an appeal as allowed by the Appellate 
Court. 
24. Removal of Tenant’s Property upon Default.  
If this Rent Agreement is terminated for default and the Tenant fails to remove personal properties 
stored in the hangar, and if the property is not removed by the Tenant or a person who has an 
ownership interest in the personal property within 14 days after the date on which the Landlord 
mailed, by certified mail, return receipt requested, notice of the landlord’s intention to dispose of the 
personal property, as required by paragraph (a) of subsection 1 of NRS 118C.230, the City shall 
seek restitution for any monies owed and may sell the property, according to regulations contained 
in the Nevada Revised Statutes.   
 
 
290
25. Quiet Enjoyment:   
The City agrees that on payment of the rent and performance of the covenants and conditions on the 
part of the Tenant to be performed hereunder, Tenant shall peaceably have and enjoy the hangar and 
all rights and privileges of Boulder City Airport, its facilities granted herein. 
26. Assurance Subordination:   
This Rent Agreement shall be subordinate to the provisions of any agreement between the City and 
the United States of America, relative to the operation or maintenance of Boulder City Airport, the 
execution of which has been required as a condition precedent to the expenditure of federal funds 
for the development and maintenance of Boulder City Airport. 
27. Non-discrimination:   
Pursuant to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and by Part 15 of the Federal Aviation 
Regulations, Tenant agrees it will not discriminate on the grounds of race, sex, color, or national 
origin, and will not permit discrimination against any person or group of persons in any manner 
prohibited by Part 15 of the Federal Aviation Regulations.  The City reserves the right to take such 
action as the United States may direct to enforce the provisions of this covenant, or as it may find 
necessary. 
28. Interpretation of Rent Agreement:   
Nothing in this Rent Agreement shall be construed or interpreted in any manner whosoever as 
limiting, relinquishing, or waiving any rights or ownership enjoyed by the City in Boulder City, or 
in any manner waiving or limiting its control over the operation, maintenance, etc., of Boulder City 
property except as is specifically provided for herein or in derogation of such governmental rights as 
the City poses. 
29. Invalid Provisions:   
In the event any term, covenant, condition, or provisions herein contained is held to be invalid by 
any court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity of such shall in no way affect any other term, 
covenant, condition or provision herein contained; provided that the invalidity of such covenant, 
condition or provision does not materially prejudice either the City or Tenant. 
30. Successors and Assigns:   
All of the terms, covenants and conditions herein contained shall be binding upon and shall inure to 
the benefit of the legal representative, successors, and assigns of the respective parties hereto. 
 
 
291
31. Notices:   
Notices to the City, provided for herein, shall be sufficient if sent by Email, certified mail, postage 
prepaid, addressed to: 
    
 
Boulder City Airport Manager  
 
 
 
1201 Airport Road  
 
 
 
Boulder City, NV 89005   
 
 
 
AirportAdmin@bcnv.org 
Notices to Tenant shall be sufficient if sent by Email, certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to: 
_____________________________________ 
_____________________________________ 
_____________________________________ 
Or to such other respective address, the parties may designate to each other in writing from time to 
time. 
32. Remedies Cumulative:   
The specified remedies to which City may resort under the terms of this Rent Agreement are 
cumulative and are not intended to be exclusive of any other remedies or means of redress, to which 
City may lawfully be entitled for any breach or threatened breach by Tenant of any provision of this 
Rent Agreement.  In addition to the other remedies in this Rent Agreement provided, the City shall 
be entitled to the restraint by injunction of the violation or attempted or threatened violation. 
33. Identification of Tenant:   
If more than one person or entity executes this Rent Agreement as Tenant:  
• Each of them is jointly and severally liable for performing all of the terms of this rental 
agreement to be performed by Tenant, and  
• The term “Tenant” as used in this rental agreement means and includes each of them jointly 
and severally, in all aspects.   
34. Execution Required:   
This Rental Agreement is not effective until execution by and delivery to both City and Tenant.  
This agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties and cannot be modified or changed 
unless a new Rent Agreement is written and signed by all parties.  In the event that any Court holds 
that any section or portion of this Rent Agreement is not valid, all other sections of this Rent 
Agreement, as permitted by law, shall remain enforceable and binding. 
292
I AGREE TO ENTER INTO THIS RENTAL AGREEMENT IN MY PERSONAL AND 
INDIVIDUAL CAPACITY.  I FURTHER AGREE I HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND 
THE FOREGOING AND AGREE TO BE BOUND THEREBY. I WILL NOTIFY THE 
AIRPORT MANAGER OF ANY ADDRESS OR AIRCRAFT OWNERSHIP CHANGES. 
 
 
EXECUTED this                                             day of                                                     2020. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE EXECUTED THIS 
LEASE ON THE DAY AND YEAR FIRST ABOVE WRITTEN. 
CITY:  
 
TENANT: 
 
CITY OF BOULDER CITY, 
 
 
a Nevada Municipal Corporation  
 
 
 
 
By: 
 
By: 
 
          Willy Williamson 
          Airport Manager 
            
 
293
