Richard Howe, Chairman 
 
801 Clark Street, Suite 4 
Travis Godon, Vice Chairman 
 
Ely, Nevada 89301 
Shane Bybee, Commissioner 
 
(775) 293-6509 
Ian Bullis, Commissioner 
 
Fax (775) 289-2544 
Laurie L. Carson, Commissioner 
 
 
wpclerk@whitepinecountynv.gov 
Nichole Baldwin, Ex-Officio Clerk of the Board 
 
 
 
 
White Pine County 
 
Board of County Commissioners 
 
COUNTY COMMISSION & FIRE COMMISSION  
MEETING AGENDA  
 
 
DATE:               Wednesday, June 10, 2020 
TIME:                9:00 a.m.         
PLACE:             White Pine County Library Conference Room 
         
950 Campton Street, Ely, Nevada  
 
In light of Governor Sisolak’s emergency directive to ban gatherings of 50 or more, the June 10th County Commission 
& Fire Commission Meeting is going to be available via Zoom meeting. Please enter the following link in your web 
browser, or access it from this agenda at whitepinecounty.net.  If you plan on attending in person, the meeting will 
still be held at 9:00 am in the Library and we will be adhering to the 6 foot social distancing rule and the ban of 50 or 
more. Thank you for your patience as we adapt to the circumstances. 
Nichole Baldwin, County Clerk 
 
Join Zoom Meeting 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/82239167347?pwd=c2lPVXAyWmhoRXFDZVg2cDZ2MTBKdz09 
 
Meeting ID: 822 3916 7347 
 
 
 
+1 669 900 6833 US (San Jose) 
Password: 074931 
 
 
 
  
Meeting ID: 822 3916 7347 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Password: 074931 
 
*ASTERISK (*) DENOTES POSSIBLE ACTION ITEM 
 
Note:  All times are approximate except for bid openings, public hearings, and any other items agendized at a specific 
time.  Action may be taken on all items except where otherwise indicated.  Items not scheduled for a specific time 
may be considered at any time and in any order to promote efficiency. The Commission may combine two or more 
agenda items for consideration, and may remove an item from the agenda or delay discussion at any time.  Sponsorship 
of an Agenda Item by a member of the County Commission or Fire Commission may not signify agreement with the 
requested action.  The White Pine County Board of Commissioners may take a short break every 1 ½ hours.  The 
Commission will recess for a one-hour lunch break at approximately 12:00.  
 
Public Comment:  Public Comment during the County Commission & Fire Commission 
Meeting/Budget Workshop on June 10, 2020, will be for all matters, both on and off the agenda and 
will be limited to three (3) minutes per person.  The Commissions reserve the right to reduce the time 
or limit the total time allowed for public comment.  Comments during Discussion Items may not be 
accepted from the General Public. The Commissions may prohibit comment if the content of the 
comments are willfully disruptive of the meetings by being slanderous, offensive, inflammatory, 
irrational, or amounting to personal attacks or interfering with the rights of other speakers.  Persons 
are invited to submit comments in writing on the agenda items and/or attend and make comment on 
the item at the Commission meeting. 
 
ATTENTION:  Cell phone use, text messaging and conversation that are unrelated to the 
specific agenda item that is being discussed are prohibited while the meeting is in session.   
 
 
 
Page | 2 
 
 
9:00 A.M. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
MOMENT OF SILENCE/SILENT INVOCATION 
 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: A period devoted to comments by the general public, if any, and 
discussion of those comments.  No action may be taken upon a matter raised under this item of the agenda 
until the matter itself has been specifically included on an agenda as an item upon which action will be 
taken (N.R.S. 241.020(2)(c)(3)).  
 
1.  NOTICE OF TIMED AGENDA ITEMS:  
A.  9:00 A.M. PUBLIC HEARING  
1) 
PUBLIC HEARING/Discussion: The White Pine County Board of 
Commissioners will conduct a public hearing on the Notice of Intention to 
Authorize Medium-Term Obligations by White Pine County, Nevada, in the 
maximum principal amount of $1,000,000 in order to finance wholly or in part 
a public safety project including, but not limited to, a justice center.  Elizabeth 
Frances, Finance Director; John Peterson, JNA Consulting Group; Kendra 
Follett, Sherman and Howard 
 
*2) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Consideration and possible approval of 
Resolution 2020-37 Authorizing A Medium-Term Obligation In An Amount 
Of Up To $1,000,000, for the Purposes of Acquiring, Constructing, Expanding, 
Improving And Equipping Facilities Relating to Public Safety; Directing the 
Officers of the County to Forward Materials to the Department of Taxation of 
the State Of Nevada; Providing Certain Details in Connection Therewith; 
Authorizing the Sale of the Obligation; and Providing Other Matters Relating 
to the Resolution and the Effective Date of the Resolution.  Passage of this 
resolution requires a vote of at least 2/3 of all members of the County 
Commission.  Elizabeth Frances, Finance Director; John Peterson; JNA 
Consulting Group; Kendra Follett, Sherman and Howard 
 
B.  9:15 A.M.  SIMEON HERSKOVITS 
1) 
Discussion/Update from Simeon Herskovits via Zoom on the status of SNWA’s 
Pipeline Project and related litigation posture and discussion of potential 
future of residual issues relating thereto 
 
The Chairman will temporarily recess the regular County Commission meeting to convene a 
Special Joint Meeting of the White Pine County Commission and the White Pine County Fire 
Commission. 
 
C.  9:30 A.M.  SPECIAL JOINT COUNTY COMMISSION &  
 
 
 
 
 
 
     FIRE COMMISSION MEETING 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
 
 
Page | 3 
 
 
*1)   Discussion/For Possible Action:  Approval of the renewal proposal for Fire 
District property liability insurance from Nevada Public Agency Insurance 
Pool (POOL) and approval for payment from fiscal year FY2021 funds in the 
amount of $36,174.00.  Alan Reed, Warren Reed Insurance; Mike Rebaleatti, 
POOL/PACT 
 
*2) Discussion/For Possible Action:  Approval of worker’s compensation 
insurance renewal proposal for the County from Nevada Public Agency 
Compensation Trust (PACT) and approval for payment from FY2021 funds 
based on the rates outlined in the backup material. Alan Reed, Warren Reed 
Insurance; Mike Rebaleatti, POOL/PACT 
 
*3) Discussion/For Possible Action:  Approval of worker’s compensation 
insurance renewal proposal for the Fire District from Nevada Public Agency 
Compensation Trust (PACT) and approval for payment from FY2021 funds 
based on the rates outlined in the backup material. Alan Reed, Warren Reed 
Insurance; Mike Rebaleatti, POOL/PACT 
 
*4) Discussion/For Possible Action:  Approval of the 2020-2021 renewal proposal 
for County property  liability insurance from Nevada Public Agency 
Insurance POOL and approval for payment from FY 2021 funds in the 
amount of $382,346.39.  Alan Reed, Warren Reed Insurance; Mike Rebaleatti, 
POOL/PACT 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
The Chairman will adjourn the Special Joint County Commission and Fire Commission Meeting 
and will reconvene the regular meeting of the White Pine County Commission. 
 
D.  10:00 A.M.  C.E.D.S. PUBLIC HEARING 
 *1) PUBLIC HEARING/Discussion/For Possible Action: The White Pine County 
Board of Commissioners will take comments from the Public and consider 
approval of the Comprehensive Economic Development Strategies dated 
March 2020.  Elizabeth Frances, Finance Director 
 
E.  10:15 A.M.  KGHM MINE EXPANSION 
*1) Discussion/For Possible Action: to draft and send a letter of support/comments 
to BLM for support of the KGHM expansion plan for Robinson Nevada mine 
operations, during the open comment period 
 
The Chairman will temporarily recess the regular County Commission Meeting for a regular 
meeting of the White Pine County Fire Commission. 
 
F.  11:00 A.M.  FIRE COMMISSION MEETING 
  
 
  
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
 
 
Page | 4 
 
 
1) 
Discussion/Update on Fire District Progress.  Brett North, Fire Chief & Ross 
Rivera, Ely City Fire Chief 
 
 
*2) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval of Contract between the Fire 
District and OOSOSHARP, LLC dba SHARP AMBULANCE BILLING, for 
the provision of emergency medical services billing services.  Brett North, Fire 
Chief 
 
*3) 
Discussion/For Possible Action:  Update and request for direction on how to 
proceed with engineering cost proposals for the Lund and Ruth Fire Station 
re-paving projects.  Bill Calderwood, Public Works Director 
 
*4) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval of Resolution 2020-32 to augment 
the White Pine County Fire Protection District General Fund from 
unanticipated and unbudgeted beginning fund balance in the amount of 
$85,907 to provide cost match to federal agencies for the Strawberry Fire.  
Elizabeth Frances, Finance Director 
 
*5) 
Discussion/For Possible Action:  Approval to re-negotiate the contract with the 
City of Ely for Fire Protection and EMS Services pursuant to the annual re-
opener and to authorize Elizabeth Frances or Brett North to initiate 
discussions for preparation of proposals prior to July 1, 2020.  Mike Wheable, 
DA 
 
*6) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Ratification of temporary interlocal 
agreement between White Pine County Fire Protection District and the 
Duckwater Shoshone Tribe for the placement of an ambulance on the 
reservation and provision of emergency medical services in light of COVID-19 
pandemic 
 
*7) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval of monthly financial reports for 
May 2020.  Elizabeth Frances, Finance Director 
 
*8) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval of budget transfers within and 
between functions or programs within a fund that do not increase the total 
appropriation of the fund or adjust for approved grants/agency funds 
 
*9) 
Discussion/For Possible Action:  Approval of minutes from the May 13, 2020 
Fire Commission Meeting 
 
  
PUBLIC COMMENT 
The Chairman will adjourn the meeting of the White Pine County Fire Commission to reconvene 
the Regular County Commission meeting. 
 
 
 
 
 
Page | 5 
 
 
G. 
 11:30 A.M.  LIQUOR BOARD MEETING 
*1) 
Discussion/For Possible Action:  Ratification of a liquor license application by 
Jenny Ahlvers for Elyte Cheer to hold concessions for co-ed softball at Marich 
Field from June 23, thru October 1, 2020.  Sheriff Scott Henriod, Chairman 
 
H. 
 11:45 A.M.  UPDATE ON 2020 NEVADA CENSUS 
1) 
Discussion/Update: on the 2020 Nevada Census in White Pine County.  
Cheyenne Gibson, Regional Coordinator 
 
2.     ITEMS FROM ELECTED OFFICIALS AND 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   DEPARTMENT HEADS: 
A. 
ELECTED OFFICIALS  
1. Scott Henriod, Sheriff 
*a) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval of grant application being 
made by Sheriff Henriod to the Office of Criminal Justice Assistance 
Grant Program for the funding of the Eastern Nevada Narcotics Task 
Force in the amount of $81,000. Funds will be used to assist in the 
employment of deputies assigned to the Task Force 
 
2. Mike Wheable, District Attorney 
*a) 
Discussion/For Possible Action:  Approval to re-negotiate the contract 
with the City of Ely for Fire Protection and EMS Services pursuant to 
the annual re-opener and to authorize Elizabeth Frances or Brett North 
to initiate discussions for preparation of proposals prior to July 1, 2020 
 
*b) 
Discussion/For Possible Action:  Approval to authorize the District 
Attorney’s Office to administer servicing and maintaining the County’s 
fire extinguishers through use of a contract for professional services 
with White Pine Fire Extinguishers or other such professional service 
as they deem to be in the county’s best interest, effective immediately. 
Budget expense remains with the Building and Maintenance 
Department 
 
*c) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Ratification of temporary interlocal 
agreement between White Pine County Fire Protection District and the 
Duckwater Shoshone Tribe for the placement of an ambulance on the 
reservation and provision of emergency medical services in light of 
COVID-19 pandemic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page | 6 
 
 
*d) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval of a Mutual Modification of 
the Interlocal Agreement for Police Protection between the City of Ely 
and White Pine County allowing the City of Ely to fulfill its some or all 
of its payment obligations to White Pine County in the form of capital 
improvement funds to the extent agreed upon by the parties and 
allowable by law 
 
3. Nichole Baldwin, County Clerk 
 
a) 
Discussion/Update on 2020 Primary Election 
 
*b) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval to purchase the Mobile 
Ballot Printer plus licensing and warranty for $2,805 or to purchase the 
ImageCast Central G2140 scanner plus licensing and warranty for 
$12,825 or both for $15,630 from Dominion Voting Systems  
 
B. 
DEPARTMENT HEADS  
1. Lance Gale, Airport Manager 
*a) 
Discussion/For Possible Action:  Approval for KGHM Mine to use the 
parking area north of the Terminal Building at Yelland Field for their 
employee movie nights set for July 25th and July 31st, 2020 
 
2. Kristi Rozich, Aquatic Center Director 
*a) 
Discussion/For Possible Action:  To update and discuss the reopening 
of White Pine County Aquatics Center and McGill Pool and to ratify 
the change of minimum entry level from age 8 to age 10 
 
3. Brad Christiansen, Building Official 
*a) 
Public Hearing/Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval of a Petition 
for Vacation of Abandonment of Road or Easement.  The Petitioner is 
Gateway Accommodations, LLC. The property to be considered is: The 
alley way between 55 Elko Street (APN 005-114-05), 155 South Nettie 
Avenue (APN 005-114-06), 110 South Baker Avenue (APN 005-114-04), 
and 150 South Baker Avenue (APN 005-114-03) in Baker, NV. 
Presenter(s): David Sturlin-Gateway Accommodations LLC 
 
 
4. Tim Bunch, Human Resources Director 
 
*a) 
Discussion/For Possible Action:  Approval to revise current job 
description for Aquatics Facilities Assistant Manager 
 
 
*b) 
Discussion/For Possible Action:  Approval to revise the current job 
description for Aquatic Facilities Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Page | 7 
 
 
5. Elizabeth Frances, Finance Director 
*a) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval to pay Main Street Invoice 
in the amount of $15,000 
 
*b) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval to exempt during FY2021 
certain vehicles from the requirement to wait to purchase until after 
1/1/2021 due to the long lead times required 
 
*c) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval of Resolution 2020-34 to 
augment the White Pine County Building and Planning Fund from 
unanticipated and unbudgeted beginning fund balance in the amount 
of $2,000 for increased costs related to wages, overtime and benefits 
 
*d) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval of Resolution 2020-35 to 
augment the White Pine County 911 Telephone Surcharge Fund from 
unanticipated and unbudgeted beginning fund balance in the amount 
of $3,450 for costs related to contract support for the County’s 
geographic information system 
 
*e) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Feedback on the draft Comprehensive 
Economic Development Strategy (CEDS) for the Northeastern Nevada 
Regional Development Authority (NNRDA) for 2020 through 2025 
 
*f) 
Discussion For Possible Action: Ratification of Grant Application 
Being Made By Judge Stephen Bishop to the Nevada Department of 
Public Safety, For Funding Of Virtual Court Hearing Equipment in an 
Amount Not To Exceed $7,368.26 with no Required County Match 
 
*g) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Ratification of Grant Application 
Being Made By Judge Steve Dobrescu to the Nevada Department of 
Public Safety, For Funding Of Virtual Court Hearing Equipment in an 
Amount Not To Exceed $1,218.79 with no Required County Match 
 
*h) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Ratification of Grant Application 
Being Made By Judge Stephen Bishop to the Nevada Department of 
Public Safety, For Funding of a Portable JAVS Audio Recording 
Device in an Amount Not To Exceed $10,651.61 with no Required 
County Match  
 
*i) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Ratification of Grant Application 
Being Made By Elizabeth Frances/Tabatha Hamilton to the Nevada 
Department of Public Safety- Office of Criminal Justice, For Funding 
of Courthouse Security Equipment in an Amount Not To Exceed 
$88,800.00 with no Required County Match  
 
 
 
 
Page | 8 
 
 
*j) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval of Grant Award from the 
Nevada Department of Public Safety in the amount of $12,349.51 For 
Funding of Mass Casualty and Active Shooter Equipment for the 
period of June 15th, 2020- September 15th, 2020 with no Required 
County Match  
 
*k) 
Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval of monthly financial reports 
for May 2020 
 
3.  CONSENT AGENDA 
The following are “action” items that may be considered in one motion/one vote.  They are considered 
routine, non-public hearing items that have no protests.  Any person representing an item or member 
of the public not in agreement with the recommendations by staff should request to have that item 
removed from the Consent Agenda.  Any County Commissioner may remove any items from the 
consent Agenda and have it placed in the Action Items. 
*a) Discussion/For Possible Action: to ratify Correspondence Sent on Behalf of the White 
Pine County Commission. 
*b) Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval of Payroll for County Elected Officials. 
*c)  Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval of HR Transmittal for Payroll Changes. 
*d) Discussion/For Possible Action: Approval of budget transfers within and between 
functions or programs within a fund that do not increase the total appropriation of the 
fund. 
 
4.  NOTICE OF UNTIMED ITEMS 
*a) 
Discussion/For Possible Action:  Approval of minutes from the following County 
Commission Meetings: 
• May 13, 2020 
• Special May 21, 2020 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: A period devoted to comments by the general public, if any, 
and discussion of those comments.  No action may be taken upon a matter raised under this item of 
the agenda until the matter itself has been specifically included on an agenda as an item upon which 
action will be taken (N.R.S. 241.020(2)(c)(3)).  
 
County Commission 
 
* Adjournment 
 
NOTICE TO PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES: 
Members of the public who are disabled and require special assistance or accommodations 
at the meeting are requested to notify the Clerk of the Board of Commissioners at 801 Clark 
Street #4, Ely, Nevada 89301; or by calling 775-293-6509 at least two (2) days in advance. 
 
 
 
 
 
Page | 9 
 
 
Affidavit: 
I, Nichole Baldwin, did on the 4th day of June, 2020 by 5:00 p.m. cause to be posted (5) five notices of the White 
Pine County Commission/Fire Commission Meeting Agenda in the County of White Pine, to-wit:  At the 
Courthouse, at the Public Safety Building, the White Pine County Library, the White Pine County 
Administration Building, and at the Ely U.S. Post Office.  The meeting notice is also posted to the White Pine 
County website at http://whitepinecounty.net and on the State of Nevada Public Notices website at 
http://notice.nv.gov.  An additional copy of the Agenda along with supporting material, if any, are on display 
and available at the front counter of the White Pine County Clerk’s Office at 801 Clark Street,  Suite 4, Ely, 
NV 89301 
 
Nichole Baldwin 
