 
FORM 4: Notice of Urban Area Planning Commission Public Hearing – Type III – Quasi-Judicial 
   Parks & Community Development 
   101 Northwest A Street  
   Grants Pass, OR 97526 
   (541) 450-6060 
   www.grantspassoregon.gov 
   Hours:  8 a.m. to 5 p.m.  M-F 
 
  
 
 
 
NOTICE OF HEARING - URBAN AREA PLANNING COMMISSION 
 
REVISED 
Notice is hereby given that the Urban Area Planning Commission will hold a public hearing to consider the following 
proposal:  
 
Minor Site Plan Review to convert an existing commercial building into indoor storage units and a 4,228 square foot 
addition. The property is located in the General Commercial (GC) zoning district.  
 
ADDRESS:  
 
 
1270 Rogue River Hwy.         
  
TAX LOT NUMBER:   
36-05-20-DB, TL 2600   
  
PROJECT NUMBER:  
201-00326-20  
PLANNER ASSIGNED: 
Taylor Graybehl tgraybehl@grantspassoregon.gov (541) 450-6080 
 
 
HEARING DATE & TIME:  Wednesday, June 10, 2020 at 6:00 P.M. 
 
HEARING LOCATION: 
City Council Chambers – Maximum Occupancy 25 People (due to COVID-19)  
                  
 
 
101 NW "A" Street, Grants Pass, Oregon 
(Note: A separate space will be made available at City Hall to accommodate anyone who 
is not able to be seated in the City Council Chambers.) 
 
CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL:  The Urban Area Planning Commission (UAPC) may approve, approve with conditions, 
or deny the request based on the criteria found in Section 19.042 of the City of Grants Pass Development Code. 
 
OBTAINING MORE INFORMATION:  Copies of the application, all documents and evidence submitted by or on 
behalf of the applicant and the applicable criteria are available for inspection at no cost at the Parks & Community 
Development Department. Copies may be obtained for a reasonable cost. The Parks & Community Development 
Department is located in Room 202 of the City of Grants Pass Municipal Building. A copy of the staff report will be 
available at least seven days prior to the hearing. The UAPC agenda and packet items are typically available on the city’s 
website the Friday before the hearing. 
 
COMMENTING ON THE PROPOSAL:  The hearing will be subject to the Quasi-Judicial Hearing guidelines in 
Article 8 of the Development Code. At the hearing, the UAPC will take oral testimony concerning this proposal. Written 
testimony may be presented at the hearing, or may be submitted to the Parks & Community Development Department by 
5:00 pm on the date of the hearing. Prior to the close of the initial evidentiary hearing, any party may request an 
opportunity to present additional evidence or testimony regarding the proposal. The review body shall grant such request 
by continuing the public hearing or by leaving the record open for additional written evidence or testimony. Failure to 
raise an issue during the hearing, in person or by letter, or failure to provide statements or other evidence sufficient to 
afford the decision maker an opportunity to respond to the issue precludes an appeal based on that issue. 
 
APPEAL DEADLINE: Any person who is adversely affected or aggrieved, or who is otherwise entitled to this notice 
according to law, may appeal the Urban Area Planning Commission’s decision to the Grants Pass City Council by filing 
an appeal application together with the applicable fee to the Parks & Community Development Department. 
 
ACCOMMODATION OF PHYSICAL IMPAIRMENTS:  In order to accommodate persons with physical impairments please notify the 
City Recorder’s Office of any special physical or language accommodations at least 48 business hours prior to the meeting.  To 
request these arrangements please contact Karen Frerk, City Recorder, at (541) 450-6000. 
 
 
 
Mailed: May 20, 2020 
 
 
 
