 
 
 
LUZERNE COUNTY COUNCIL 
WORK SESSION 
Video/Teleconference via TEAMS 
June 09, 2020 
 
IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING VOTING SESSION 
CALL TO ORDER 
 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE AND MOMENT OF SILENCE 
 
ROLL CALL  
 
ADDITIONS TO/DELETIONS FROM WORK SESSION AGENDA 
 
ADOPTION OF WORK SESSION AGENDA 
 
AGENDA ITEMS-COUNTY MANAGER 
1. Receive and discuss Monthly Division Reports for May 2020 ................................... pages 1-24 
2. Discussion regarding resolution authorizing the County Manager to execute  
a Lease Agreement between Kingston Borough and Luzerne County for  
Magisterial District Court 11-01-05. ........................................................................ pages 25-36 
3. Discussion regarding resolution authorizing the County Manager to execute 
A Leas Agreement between Luzerne County and Luzerne County Domestic 
Relations .................................................................................................................. pages 37-51 
4. Capital Plan .............................................................................................................. pages 52-58 
 
AGENDA ITEMS-COUNTY COUNCIL 
5. Discussion regarding resolution committing a Local Match for State 
Operating Assistance for the Luzerne County Transportation Authority 
................ pages 59-63 
6. Discussion regarding resolution committing a Local Match for State 
Operating Assistance for Hazleton Public Transit 
.................................................... pages 64-66 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
This is an opportunity for members of the public to address the Council on matters within the 
subject matter jurisdiction of the Council. Please refer to the Public Meetings Online page of 
County’s Website at https://www.luzernecounty.org/1279/Public-Meetings-Online for more 
information on how to participate in Public Comment via technology. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 1 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 2 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 3 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 4 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 5 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 6 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 7 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 8 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 9 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 10 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 11 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 12 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 13 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 14 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 15 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 16 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 17 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 18 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 19 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 20 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 21 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 22 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 23 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 24 of 66
                  AGENDA SUBMITTAL TO LUZERNE COUNTY COUNCIL 
 
ITEM TITLE 
Consider adoption of a Resolution authorizing the 
County Manager to execute a Lease Agreement 
between Luzerne County and Kingston Borough 
for premises located at 500 Wyoming Avenue, 
Kingston, Pennsylvania, 18704.  
 
COUNCIL MEETING 
DATE 
Voting Session  
June 9, 2020 
AGENDA 
NUMBER 
 
Dept: 
Contact: 
Phone: 
Office of Law 
Romilda Crocamo 
570-825-1598 
 
SUMMARY: 
Court Administration recommends that Council approve a Resolution [Attachment A] 
authorizing the County Manager to execute the attached Lease Agreement [Attachment B] with 
Kingston Borough for the property at 500 Wyoming Avenue, Kingston, Pennsylvania, 18704, to 
be used as the offices of Magisterial District Court 11-01-05.  The Court of Common Pleas is in 
agreement with the proposed Lease Agreement.   
FINANCING: 
Luzerne County Court Administration Budget. 
DISCUSSION: 
The current lease for Magisterial District Court 11-01-05 at 500 Wyoming Avenue, Kingston, 
Pennsylvania, 18704 expired on December 31, 2015. 
The renewed Lease Agreement will have a term of two (2) years.  The County may elect to 
renew the Lease Agreement for two (2) additional terms of two (2) years.  The total rent costs to 
the County is as follows:   
 
July 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021:  
 
$2,000.00 per month 
July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2022:  
 
$2,000.00 per month 
July 1, 2022 through June 30, 2023:  
 
$2,000.00 per month (if elected) 
July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024:  
 
$2,000.00 per month (if elected) 
July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2025:  
 
$2,000.00 per month (if elected) 
July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2026:  
 
$2,000.00 per month (if elected) 
 
ALTERNATIVES: 
County Council may decline to authorize the County Manager to enter into this Lease 
Agreement.  This is not recommended because the current lease expired on December 31, 
2015. 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 25 of 66
Luzerne County Council Agenda Submittal 
            
 
Proposed Lease Agreement – Kingston Borough 
Date: June 9, 2020 – Page 2 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT A:  
Proposed Resolution 
ATTACHMENT B:  
Lease Agreement 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 26 of 66
RESOLUTION R-2020-_____ 
LUZERNE COUNTY COUNCIL 
 
A Resolution by the Luzerne County Council Authorizing the County Manager to 
Execute a Lease Agreement Between Kingston Borough and Luzerne County for 
Magisterial District Court 11-01-05 
 
WHEREAS, Luzerne County Council has authority to approve of all leases concerning real 
property; and  
 
WHEREAS, Luzerne County currently leases property located at 500 Wyoming Avenue, 
Kingston, Pennsylvania, 18704 for use in connection with the operations of Magisterial District Court 
11-01-05; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the current lease agreement for this property expired on December 31, 2015; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the renewed Lease Agreement will have a term of two (2) years with two (2) options 
to renew for two (2) years; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the monthly rental cost for the total space will range from $2,000.00 (2020) to 
$2,000.00 (2026 – if elected); and 
 
 
Whereas the 11th Judicial District (Court of Common Pleas) concurs and recommends the 
adoption of the Lease Agreement. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Luzerne County Council authorizes the County 
Manager to execute a lease agreement between Kingston Borough for the use of the property located 
at 500 Wyoming Avenue for Magisterial District Court 11-01-05 for a term of July 1, 2020 through 
June 30, 2022 at a rate of $2000.00 per month. 
 
This Resolution shall become effective six days after adoption. 
 
ROLL CALL VOTE: 
AYES- 
NAYS- 
 
ADOPTED at a meeting of Luzerne County Council held on __________________, 2020. 
 
 
LUZERNE COUNTY COUNCIL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By:___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Tim McGinley, Chairman 
 
ATTEST: _____________________________ 
 
          Sharon Lawrence, Clerk of Council 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_______________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C. David Pedri, Esq., County Manager 
 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 27 of 66
 
 
 
 
 
 
,/ 
Article 1. Parties 
Lease Agreement 
Magisterial District Court 11-1-05 
 
THIS LEASE AGREEMENT, entered into this _____ day of June, 2020, between 
Municipality of Kingston, a political sub-division of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, with 
its principal place of business 500 Wyoming Avenue, Kingston, Pennsylvania, 18704 
(hereinafter called "LESSOR") and Luzerne County, a political sub-division of the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, having its principal office at 200 North River Street, Wilkes-
Barre, Pennsylvania, 18711(hereinafter called "LESSEE"). 
 
R-E-C-1-T-A-L-S 
 
WHEREAS, LESSOR is the owner of the premises located at 500 Wyoming Avenue, 
Kingston, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, and desires to rent the space located thereon/therein 
to LESSEE for use as government office space, more specifically for the exclusive use by 
Magisterial District Court 11-1-05 and such other County uses as LESSOR deems 
appropriate; and 
 
WHEREAS, LESSEE desires to rent same; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, do 
agree as follows: 
 
Article 2. Demise, Description, Use and Premises 
 
LESSOR hereby leases to LESSEE, who hereby leases from LESSOR, the 
demised premises located at the Kingston Municipal Building, Kingston, Pennsylvania, 
consisting of approximately one-thousand five hundred and 
ninety- three (1,593) square feet 
of 
said space, on 
the second floor of said location, to 
be occupied and used for the doings of 
all things necessary and incidental to LESSEE's business {said space hereinafter called 
"leased premises" or "demised premises"), for the term of two (2) years commercial as 
set forth in Article 3 herein and continuing until terminated as provided herein for the 
minimum annual rentals as set forth in Article 4 hereof. 
 
Article 3.  Terms and Use 
 
If renovations are not applicable to this lease, the date beginning the term shall be in 
accordance with the date indicated in the approved motion by the Luzerne County 
Commissioners. 
 
The term of this lease is as follows: 
 
• July 1, 2020 Thru June 30, 2021 
• 
July 1, 2021 Thru 
June 30, 2022 
 
 
 
Article 4.  Rental 
 
LESSEE agrees to pay LESSOR at such place as the LESSOR shall designate from 
time to time, in writing, as rent for the leased premises, the minimum annual sum of twenty-four 
thousand ($24,000.00) DOLLARS, for the initial two-year term of this Lease, payable without 
demand and without setoff or deduction. 
 
The rent provided for herein shall be paid in monthly installments of two thousand 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 28 of 66
($2,000.00) DOLLARS payable in advance on the first (1st) day of each and every month.  
 
Should the LESSEE take possession of the premises in accordance with the terms of 
Articles 2 and 3 of this Lease in the middle of any month (or terminate the lease in the middle of 
any month), the rent for said month shall be prorated on a daily basis using a thirty (30) day 
month. 
 
Article 5.  Tenant Maintenance 
 
LESSEE shall be responsible for all costs associated with communications, 
telephone and television service, if applicable, to the demised premise. These assignments of 
costs apply only to service authorized and ordered by 
the LESSEE to the entity providing the 
service. LESSOR shall not be responsible for any of these charges but shall also not claim any 
expenditures for reimbursement associated with 
these 
services 
from 
the 
LESSEE. 
 
Article 6.  Taxes 
LESSOR shall be responsible for all real estate taxes associated with the demised 
premises. LESSOR shall also be responsible for all fire and boiler insurance for the 
demised premises. LESSEE shall provide for its own contents insurance 
located 
upon 
the 
demised 
premises. 
 
 
Article 7. Insurance 
 
LESSOR at its respective cost and expense, shall carry general public liability insurance, 
insuring both LESSOR and LESSEE against personal injuries in the amount of at least Two 
Million and 00/100 ($2,000,000.00) DOLLARS, and not less than One Hundred Thousand and 
00/100 ($100,000.00) DOLLARS for damage to property. LESSOR shall, prior to delivery of 
possession, deliver to LESSEE a certificate of the insurance company (or an acceptable 
substitute) issuing such insurance evidencing such coverage, which shall contain a statement to 
the effect that such coverage may not be canceled without at least thirty (30) days prior written 
notice to the LESSEE. Such insurance shall in addition cover any loss or damage occurring as 
a result of any alterations or improvements or additions made by LESSEE. If LESSOR shall fail 
to insure as herein required or shall fail promptly to furnish to LESSEE satisfactory evidence of 
such insurance or of the renewal thereof before its expiration, LESSEE may from time to time 
obtain such insurance for its benefit, the cost of which shall be recoverable from the LESSOR 
on demand. 
 
Article 8.  Alterations and Surrender of Premises 
 
LESSEE covenants and agrees that it will not make any structural change(s) without 
the LESSOR's written consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, and without first 
providing LESSOR with at least ten (10) days written notice of the proposed change(s) 
outlining the change(s) in detail. 
 
The LESSEE further covenants that it will not proceed with said change(s) until written 
approval is received from the LESSOR or at least ten (10) days have elapsed since the 
LESSOR was notified of the proposed change(s).  LESSEE will not in any manner deface or 
injure the demised premises or any part thereof, and will return the premises promptly to the 
LESSOR upon termination of this lease. LESSOR, if changes have been approved, shall 
accept the demised premises, with the approved changes, in as good condition as the same are 
now in, including the changes made over the term of this lease, loss by fire or other hazard and 
by ordinary wear and tear excepted. 
 
Article 9.  Fixtures and Personal Property 
 
Any trade fixtures, equipment and other property installed in or attached to the demised 
premises by or at the expense of the LESSEE shall remain the property of the LESSEE and 
the LESSOR agrees that the LESSEE shall have the exclusive right at any time and from 
time to time to remove any and all of its trade fixtures, equipment and other property which it 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 29 of 66
may have stored upon or affixed to the demised premises; provided, however, that in the event 
of such removal, LESSEE shall restore the premises to substantially the same condition in 
which the premises were at the time LESSEE took possession, loss by fire or other hazard and 
by ordinary wear and tear excepted. 
Article 10. Utilities 
 
LESSOR hereby agrees to pay any and all charges made by any public or private 
utility company for services furnished to LESSEE including, but not limited to, all costs for 
electricity, sanitary sewer, potable and fire water, natural gas, fuel oil, heating and air 
conditioning. LESSOR shall also be solely responsible for the operation, maintenance, repair 
and replacement of all equipment associated above that provide service to the demised 
premises in whole or in part, including all 
costs. 
 
Article 11.  Services/Operating Expenses 
 
LESSOR hereby agrees to pay any and all charges made by any public or private entity 
for the 
following services: 
 
• 
Building Security (if 
applicable) 
• 
Municipal Solid Waste Removal 
• 
Hazardous Waste Disposal (if 
applicable) 
• 
Janitorial Services (within the interior of the demised premises and all common 
areas) at the end of each and every business day. Janitorial services must be 
provided during the day for any common areas 
shared between LESSEE and other 
tenants in the demised premises. 
• 
Janitorial Services for the exterior of the entire demised premises each and every 
business day 
• 
Snow and winter material removal (as set forth in Article 
24) 
• 
Complete building maintenance 
• 
Fire alarm service 
• 
Smoke alarm service 
• 
Elevator service 
• 
Sprinkler service 
• 
HVAC service 
• 
All permits, inspections, certifications and application fees 
necessary for the legal 
and/or safe operation of the demised 
premises 
• 
Window cleaning service 
• 
Pest control service 
• 
Common Area entrance carpeting service 
 
Article 12.  Assignment and Subletting 
 
This article does not apply to this lease agreement. 
 
Article 13.  Lessor's Default 
 
If LESSOR defaults in the performance of any term, covenant, or condition required 
to be performed by it under this LEASE, LESSEE may elect either one of the following: 
(a) 
After not less than ten (10) days’ notice to LESSOR, LESSEE may 
remedy such default by any necessary action, and in connection with such remedy may 
pay expenses and employ counsel. All reasonable sums so expended or obligations 
incurred by LESSEE in connection therewith shall be paid by LESSOR to LESSEE on 
demand; and, on failure of such reimbursement, LESSEE may, in addition to any other 
right or remedy that LESSEE may have, deduct the costs and expenses thereof from rent 
subsequently becoming due hereunder; or 
(b) 
Elect to terminate this Agreement by giving at least ten (10) days 
notice to LESSOR of such intention, thereby terminating this Agreement on the date 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 30 of 66
designated in such notice, unless LESSOR shall have cured such default prior to the 
expiration of the ten (10) day period. 
 
Article 14.  Lessee's Default 
 
If LESSEE shall allow the rent to be in arrears more than thirty (30) days after written 
notice of such delinquency, or shall remain in default under  any  other condition of this 
LEASE for a period of thirty (30) days after written notice from LESSOR, or should any 
person other than LESSEE secure possession  of  the premises, or any part thereof, by 
operation of law in any manner whatsoever, LESSOR may, at its option, without notice to 
LESSEE, terminate this LEASE; or,  in the alternative, LESSOR may reenter  and take 
possession of said premises  and remove all persons and property therefrom, without being 
deemed guilty of any manner of trespass, and relet the premises or any part thereof, for all or 
any part of the remainder of said term, to a party satisfactory to LESSOR; plus the LESSEE 
will reimburse the reasonable expense of reletting to the  LESSOR. 
 
Article 15.  Option to Renew 
 
LESSEE shall have the right to renew or extend this lease agreement, under the 
same terms and conditions as appear herein, including, but not limited to, the same lease 
rates for the renewal term(s): 
 
Optional Renewal Term 1 
• 
July 1, 2022 Thru June 30, 2023 
• 
July 1, 2023 Thru 
June 30, 2024 
 
Optional Renewal Term 2 
 
• 
July 1, 2024 Thru June 30, 2025 
• 
July 1, 2025 Thru 
June 30, 2026 
 
 
LESSEE shall have the right to exercise any option to renew or extend this lease 
agreement, provided the LESSEE delivers written notice to renew or extend this lease 
agreement within 10 calendar days of the expiration of the then current initial base term or 
lease renewal term.   Notification to renew shall be in accordance with Article 18. Rates 
for all renewal terms shall be in accordance with Article 4. 
 
Article 16. Quiet Enjoyment 
 
So long as LESSEE shall perform and observe all of the conditions of this lease on 
LESSEE's part to be performed and observed, the LESSEE shall have quiet, peaceful, and 
uninterrupted possession of the demised premises. 
 
Article 17.  Most Favorable Conditions 
LESSOR agrees that should any more favorable conditions be included in any 
other leases entered into between LESSOR and any other tenant within the property 
limits, during the life of this lease, pertaining particularly to the rate of rentable square 
foot, or to other conditions in general, these same conditions are made a part of this lease. 
 
Article 18. Notices 
All notices provided or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be given 
by certified or registered mail, addressed to the proper party, at the following address: 
If to LESSOR: 
LESSOR 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 31 of 66
 
Kingston Municipality  
Attn: Municipal Manager 
500 Wyoming Avenue 
Kingston, PA 18704 
 
If to LESSEE: 
 
LESSEE 
 
Luzerne County Court House 
Attn:  Luzerne County Manager 
200 N. River Street 
Wilkes-Barre, PA 18711 
 
Article 19. Termination 
This lease can be terminated by either partying notifying the other at least sixty (60) 
days in advance, prior to separation. The notification will be in accordance with Article 18. 
 
 
Article 20.  Obligations of Successors 
 
The LESSOR and LESSEE agree that all 
the 
provisions, hereof, shall 
bind and 
inure to the benefit of both parties, hereto, their respective heirs, legal representatives, 
successors and assigns. 
 
Article 21. Captions 
 
The captions throughout this lease are inserted as a matter of convenience, 
only, and in no way confine, limit, or describe the scope of the intent of any Article of 
this lease. 
 
Article 22.  Renovations 
No renovations are applicable to this lease agreement. 
 
Article 23.  Parking Easement 
Throughout the term of this Lease, including any extensions or renewals of the 
Lease, LESSEE's agents, employees, suppliers, invitees, guests, customers and clients 
have the right to use the area marked "Parking Lot" on Exhibit B, attached to and 
incorporated into this Lease, approved by LESSOR and LESSEE who will indicate their 
approval by signing and dating each page of said exhibit, for vehicular parking and 
ingress to and egress from the leased Premises, under the terms and conditions set forth 
below. This right constitutes an exclusive easement during the term of this lease. 
 
(a) 
Vehicles may be parked only in spaces designated by LESSOR as parking 
spaces, either by painting lines or otherwise as LESSSOR deems fit. 
 
(b) 
Use of the parking lot by officers, agents, employees, suppliers, invitees, 
guests, customers and clients must be in accordance with reasonable rules 
and regulations adopted by LESSOR and communicated to LESSEE by 
written notice. 
 
(c) 
The parking lot shall accommodate at least twenty vehicles; each of which 
shall have direct and immediate access to public streets. 
 
Article 
24. Lessor's Covenants 
 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 32 of 66
LESSOR hereby agrees and shall during the term (or any extended term) of this 
LEASE do or perform the following: 
1. 
Furnish sufficient light to the exterior of the building and to the adjacent 
parking lot. 
2. 
Provide LESSEE with a sufficient number of keys to the outer doors of the 
building. 
3. 
Place LESSEE in quiet possession of the leased premises and shall secure 
LESSEE in the quiet enjoyment thereof against all persons lawfully 
claiming the same during the entire lease term and any 
extensions 
thereof. 
4. 
Be. liable and responsible for any and all service and operating costs, 
maintenance and repairs as set forth in Article 11 of this Lease. 
5. 
Be liable and responsible for any and all utility costs as set forth 
in Article 
10 of this Lease. 
6. 
Provide parking as set for in Article 23 of this lease in accordance with 
this lease and all federal, state and local laws and ordinances having 
jurisdiction. 
7. 
Remove snow and all winter hazards within the exterior common areas of 
the leased premises and the entire parking easement within 12 hours after 
storm termination as officially determined at the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton 
International Airport. During the storm, LESSOR operations shall be to 
periodically remove all snowfall and/or ice accumulations necessary to 
maintain safe ingress and egress to and from the leased premises during 
business hours. Failure by the LESSOR to conduct operations as set forth 
in this paragraph may result in the LESSEE removing snow and/or ice and 
incurring the associated charges. All incurred charges by LESSEE shall 
be reimbursed by LESSOR on demand within 30 days of 
receipt. 
8. 
Indemnify and save harmless LESSEE from and against any and all 
matters, claims, damages, losses, costs and charges whatsoever occasioned 
to or suffered by or imposed upon LESSEE or its property (either directly or 
indirectly in respect to any matter or thing in consequence of or in 
connection with or arising out of LESSOR'S property and/or any use by 
others of the property). 
 
Article 25.  Lessee's Covenants 
 
LESSEE hereby agrees and shall, during the term (or any extended term or 
renewal) of this LEASE do or perform the following: 
1. 
Reimburse LESSOR for any and all repairs to the building resulting from 
damage caused by LESSEE, its employees, servants or agents. 
2. 
Allow LESSOR or its agents, with or without workmen or others, at 
any reasonable time during the said term to enter upon the 
leased premises 
and view the state and condition thereof and shall serve on the LESSEE 
at the leased premises notice in writing of any defect requiring the 
LESSEE, within a reasonable time, to repair the same in so far as the 
LESSEE is bound to do by the terms of this LEASE, provided 
LESSEE is given at least one (1) business days’ notice prior to the visit 
and LESSEE agrees that the repair is valid. 
3. 
Allow LESSOR to maintain or make changes, additions, or 
repairs to pipes, conduits, ducts or other installations in the 
leased premises where necessary to serve other premises in the 
building, but so as not to interfere materially with the use and 
enjoyment of the leased premises and making good any 
damage to the leased premises 
so 
caused. 
 
Article 26.  Destruction of Premises 
 
In the event of the total destruction of the building, this LEASE shall 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 33 of 66
terminate on the date when destruction occurs, and the rent shall be abated, 
without notice 
or request from LESSEE, for the unexpired portion of this lease. 
 
''Total Destruction" shall mean such damage to the building of which the 
leased premises is a part as cannot be repaired within thirty (30) days of the date 
of the destruction. The Certificate of the LESSOR'S Architect or Engineer as to 
the length of time within which the LESSOR could repair, subject to the approval 
of the Luzerne County Engineer, is conclusive and binding upon both the 
LESSOR and 
the 
LESSEE for the purpose hereof. 
 
In the event of the partial destruction of the building then if, in the opinion  
of the LESSOR'S Architect or Engineer, subject to the approval of the Luzerne 
County Engineer, the destruction is such that the leased premises cannot  be  used 
for the LESSEE'S business until repairs have been made, the rent shall abate in the 
proportion that the part of the leased premises rendered unusable bears to the whole 
of the leased premises, at the sole discretion of Luzerne County, until the repair has 
been made. 
 
"Partial Destruction" shall mean any damage to the building which renders 
all or any part of such building unfit for use by its occupants for a period up to 
thirty (30) days, but which damage is less than ''total destruction" as defined 
above. The Certificate of the LESSOR'S Architect, subject to the approval of the 
Luzerne County Engineer, as to the extent of the unfitness shall be conclusive 
and binding upon both LESSOR and LESSEE for the 
purpose hereof. 
 
In the event of partial destruction as hereinbefore defined, or of damage 
less than partial destruction, the LESSOR covenants with the LESSEE to repair 
and substantially restore the leased premises. The LESSOR shall pay for the cost 
of such repairs and restoration provided. LESSOR covenants to LESSEE that 
LESSOR will not move or remove any of the LESSEE'S possessions until 
approval is granted by the LESSEE in writing, which shall not be unreasonably 
withheld. 
 
All partial or 
total destruction notices must be received in writing by LESSOR to 
LESSEE within 24 hours of the loss. Failure to notify will be immediate cause for 
termination of this lease by LESSEE without further obligation to LESSOR. 
 
Article 27. Eminent Domain 
 
If at any time during the term (or any extended or renewed term) of this LEASE, 
title is taken by the right or exercise of condemnation, expropriation or otherwise to the 
whole or portion of the building of which the leased premises are a part (whether or not 
including the leased premises), the LESSOR may, at its option, give notice to the LESSEE 
terminating this LEASE on the date stated in the notice. Upon such termination, the 
LESSEE shall immediately surrender the leased premises and all its interests therein to the 
LESSOR (subject to the time allowed by federal or state law prescribed by the agency 
enforcing the eminent domain action), or to the expropriating authority, as the law and  
circumstances may require, and the rent shall abate and be apportioned to the date of the 
termination and the LESSEE shall forthwith pay to the LESSOR the apportioned rent and 
all other amounts which may be due to the LESSOR up to the date of termination. The 
LESSEE shall have no claim upon the LESSOR for the value of the unexpired term of this 
LEASE, but the parties shall each be entitled to receive and retain such compensation as 
may be awarded to each respectively.   If an award for compensation made to the LESSOR 
specifically includes an award for the LESSEE, the LESSOR will pay over same to the 
LESSEE within five (5) days of receipt of said funds. 
 
Article 28. Pennsylvania Law to Apply 
 
This Agreement shall be construed under and in accordance with the laws of the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and all obligations of the parties created hereunder are 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 34 of 66
performable in Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, and any suit arising hereunder shall be 
brought only in said County. 
 
Article 29.  Legal Construction 
 
In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Lease shall for any 
reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, 
illegality, or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions hereof and this Lease 
shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions had never 
been 
contained herein. 
 
Article 30. Brokerage 
 
The parties represent and warrant that they have dealt directly with one another so as 
not to give rise to any valid claim for brokerage commission. 
 
Article 31.  Amendment 
 
No amendment, modification, or alteration of the terms hereof shall be binding unless 
the same be in writing, dated subsequent to the date hereof, and be duly executed by the 
parties hereto. 
 
Article 32.  Rights and Remedies Cumulative 
 
The rights and remedies provided by this LEASE are cumulative and the use of any 
one right or remedy by either party shall not preclude or waive their right to use any or all 
other remedies. Said rights and remedies are given in addition to any other rights the parties 
may have by law, statute, ordinance or otherwise. 
 
Article 33.  Waiver of Default 
 
No waiver by the parties hereto of any default or breach of any term, condition, 
or covenant of this Lease shall be deemed to be a waiver of any other breach of 
the same or 
any other term, condition, or covenant contained herein. 
 
Article 34. Excuses 
 
Neither LESSOR nor LESSEE shall be required to perform any term, condition, 
or covenant in this Lease so long as such performance is delayed or prevented by any acts 
of God, strikes, lockouts, material or labor restrictions by any governmental authority, 
civil riot, floods, or any other cause not reasonably within the control of the parties. 
 
Article 35. Time of Essence 
 
Time is of the essence of this Agreement. 
 
Article 36. Binding of Successors 
 
This Agreement shall be binding on and shall inure to the benefit of Successors 
and Assigns of the parties hereto.  
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 35 of 66
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned hereto execute this Lease 
Agreement as of the day and year above written. 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
 
 
LESSEE: 
 
 
_________________________    BY:   __________________________________ 
 
 
ATTEST:  
 
 
 
 
 
LESSOR: 
__________________________BY:   __________________________________ 
 
                                  C. David Pedri 
County Manager 
 
 
County Council Approval via Resolution#____________ passed on ______________________ 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 36 of 66
                  AGENDA SUBMITTAL TO LUZERNE COUNTY COUNCIL 
 
ITEM TITLE 
Consider adoption of a Resolution authorizing the 
County Manager to execute a Lease Agreement 
between Luzerne County and Luzerne County 
Domestic Relations for premises located at 113 
West North Street, Wilkes-Barre, PA 18711.  
 
COUNCIL MEETING 
DATE 
Voting Session  
June 9, 2020 
AGENDA 
NUMBER 
 
Dept: 
Contact: 
Phone: 
Office of Law 
Romilda Crocamo 
570-825-1598 
 
SUMMARY: 
Court Administration recommends that Council approve a Resolution [Attachment A] 
authorizing the County Manager to execute the attached Lease Agreement [Attachment B] with 
Luzerne County for the property at 113 West North Street, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, 18711, 
to be used as the offices of Luzerne County Domestic Relations.  The Court of Common Pleas 
is in agreement with the proposed Lease Agreement.   
FINANCING: 
Luzerne County Court Administration Budget. 
DISCUSSION: 
The current lease for Luzerne County Domestic Relations at 113 West North Street, Wilkes-
Barre, Pennsylvania, 18711 expires on December 31, 2020.  
The Lease Agreement provides the County with an option to renew the Lease under the same 
terms, covenants, and conditions currently in force, for a further period of a one (1) year term. 
The total rent costs to the County is as follows:   
January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021: 
$33,788.25 per month  
 
 
ALTERNATIVES: 
County Council may decline to authorize the County Manager to enter into this Lease 
Agreement.  This is not recommended because the current lease expires on December 31, 
2020. 
 
 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 37 of 66
Luzerne County Council Agenda Submittal 
            
 
Proposed Lease Agreement – Luzerne County Domestic Relations 
Date: June 9, 2020 – Page 2 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT A:  
Proposed Resolution 
ATTACHMENT B:  
Lease Agreement 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 38 of 66
RESOLUTION R-2020- 
LUZERNE COUNTY COUNCIL 
 
 
A Resolution by the Luzerne County Council Authorizing the County 
Manager to Execute a Lease Agreement Between Luzerne County and 
Luzerne County Domestic Relations. 
 
WHEREAS, Luzerne County currently leases property 113 West North Street, 
Wilkes-Barre, for Luzerne County Domestic Relations; and 
 
WHEREAS, the lease renewal was renegotiated for an additional term of one (1) 
year with rent of $33,788.25 per year for a total rent of $405,459.00 per year; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Luzerne County Council 
authorizes the County Manager to execute a lease agreement Luzerne County and 
Luzerne County Domestic Relations for a term of January 1, 2020 through December 
31, 2020 at a rate of $33,788.25 per month. 
 
This Resolution shall become effective six days after 
adoption. 
 
ADOPTED at a meeting of the Luzerne County Council held on June   , 2020. 
 
 
LUZERNE COUNTY COUNCIL 
 
 
 
BY:   ________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       Tim McGinley, Chairman 
 
ATTEST:    ________________________ 
Clerk of Council 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________________ 
 
 
 
   C. David Pedri, County Manager 
 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 39 of 66
LEASE 
THIS LEASE made as of the 1st day of January 2020, between the LUZERNE 
COUNTY ("Landlord”), a Pennsylvania and Luzerne County Domestic Relations (the 
"Tenant") a branch of the Luzerne County Court System, having a principal place of business 
at 113 West North Street, Wilkes-Barre, PA. 
WITNESSETH: 
1. Premises. The Landlord hereby leases to the Tenant, on the terms and conditions 
hereinafter set forth, space in the Luzerne County Brominski Building, situated at113 West 
North Street, Wilkes-Barre, PA  (the "Building"), the portion subject to this Lease being more 
particularly described in Exhibit "A-I" attached hereto (the "Premises”), which is described as 
Zone A, but excludes rooms Al 07, Al 19, A 121, A 128, and the restrooms, together with the 
nonexclusive right to use, in common with the Landlord and other tenants of the Landlord, the 
parking lot of the Building, all exterior walk-ways and access areas, and the interior corridors, 
restrooms, elevators, stairs, lobbies, walk-ways, within the Building, and all other common 
areas of the Building (the "Common Areas"). 
 
2. Term. 
(a) Initial Term. The Landlord hereby leases the Premises to the Tenant for a 
period of 1 year commencing on January 1, 2020,  and expiring on December 31, 2020,  the 
"Initial Term"). 
(b) Renewal. Unless either party hereto shall give to the other written notice for 
removal at least six (6) months prior to the end of said term, this lease shall continue upon the 
terms, covenants and conditions then in force, for a further period of a one (l) year term, at the 
rental rate of Thirty Three Thousand Seven Hundred Eighty Eight and Twenty Five Cents 
Thousand Dollars ($ 33,788.25) per month aggregating to ($405,459.00) per term, and so on 
from one (l) year term to (l) year term, until terminated by either party hereto giving to the other 
at least six (6) months written notice for removal prior to the expiration of the then current term. 
Any notice given by Lessee to Lessor must be given by registered mail and as against Lessor, the 
only admissible evidence that notice has been given by Lessee shall be a registered return receipt 
signed by Lessor or its agent. This Lease Agreement is Reviewable and Renewable annually 
based upon the CSCAP Cost of Ownership for Luzerne County, copy attached. 
3. Rent. 
(a) 
Rental Amount. The Tenant shall pay to the Landlord without set-off, 
demand or deduction of any kind whatsoever, an annual rent for the lease year during the 
Initial Term. The Term Rental amount shall $33,788.25. The Annual Rent during the Initial 
Term shall be $405,459.00.   
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 40 of 66
(b) 
Monthly Payments. The Annual Rent shall be payable in twelve (12) 
monthly installments of $33,788.25. The rent is due at Luzerne County Accounts Payable 
such other place as the Landlord may from time to time designate. 
(c) 
Payment Term Rent and Added Rent. In consideration of the rents to 
be paid and the terms, covenants and conditions of this Lease, Landlord hereby leases to the 
Tenant the above-described premises. The Term of this Lease shall be as specified above, 
beginning and ending on the dates specified. The payment for each month must be paid in 
advance on the first day of the month at the Landlord's address which is 200 North River 
Street, Wilkes –Barre, Pennsylvania.  Landlord need not give notice to Tenant to pay the 
rent. Rent must be paid in full and no amount may be subtracted from it for any reason. 
Rent received at the office of the Landlord after the fifth of the month in which it was due 
will be subject to a late fee. The late fee will be calculated at one and one quarter percent 
(1 1/4 %) of the balance of the rent due the Landlord in the current and any previous month 
as of the tenth of the current month. The late fee shall be considered additional rent. 
Rents mailed via the United States Postal Service which are postmarked on or before fifth 
of the month, shall be considered to be received on time. 
Tenant may be required to pay other charges to Landlord under the terms of this Lease, 
which will be called "Added Rent". This Added Rent is payable as rent together with the 
next monthly rent due. If Tenant fails to pay the Added Rent on time, the Landlord shall 
have the same rights against the Tenant as if Tenant failed to pay the rent. Payment of rent 
in installments is for Tenant's convenience only. If Tenant defaults, Landlord may give 
notice to Tenant that Tenant may no longer pay rent in installments and the entire rent for 
the remaining part of the Term will then be due and payable. 
 
(d) Escalation of Rent during the term. The term operating expenses as used herein 
shall mean and include all expenses incurred and payable by the Landlord in the operation, 
maintenance, repair and management of the land and premises described hereto, being expenses 
that are ordinarily chargeable against income in accordance with good accounting practice and 
without restricting the generality of the foregoing shall include: 
(i)            All taxes, rates, and assessments, whether general or special 
levied or assessed for municipal, school or other purposes or levied or 
assessed by any lawful government authority for such purposes with 
respect to the said lands and premises but excluding taxes on income or 
profits. 
(ii)            Fuel expenses incurred in heating, ventilating and air 
conditioning the building. 
(iii) 
Utility expenses, gas, water rates and sewer rates. 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 41 of 66
(iv) 
Electric power and lighting expenses. 
In the event that such operating expenses in any subsequent calendar year shall exceed the 
operating expenses for the year 2020 the Tenant shall pay as additional rent his 
proportionate share of the excess, such share being 20% of the said excess, subject to a 
proportionate adjustment if the Tenant did not occupy the premises during the whole of 
such subsequent calendar year. Any amount payable by the Tenant under this clause shall 
be deemed to be rent and shall be collectible and be paid as additional rent within 30 days 
after demand by the Landlord. 
In the event of a dispute as to any amount payable under this clause the certificate of a 
Certified Public Accountant appointed by the Landlord shall be conclusive and binding 
upon the Tenant and Landlord. 
4. 
Use of Premises. 
(a) 
Permitted Use. Tenant may use the Premises to operate and conduct 
its business and related purposes. Tenant shall comply with all applicable laws in the 
conduct of its business and its use of the Premises. Luzerne County Domestic Relations 
provides public services that include child and spousal support collections for Luzerne 
County residents. 
(b) 
Use of Common Areas. Restrooms, stairs, hallways, lobbies, parking 
lots, exterior walkways and access areas, and other common areas of the Building shall be 
for the use of the Tenant. Tenant and its officers, employees, agents, and invitees will use 
such common areas in a reasonable and orderly manner in cooperation with all other 
tenants and their officers, employees, agents and invitees. 
(c) 
Uses of Other Areas. Tenant use of the lecture hall, classrooms, 
breakout rooms, and boardrooms will be at the discretion of the Landlord. Additional 
charges may apply, which shall be deemed added rent. 
(d) 
Waste, Nuisance, or Illegal Uses. Tenant shall not use or permit the 
use of the Premises in any manner that results in waste of the Premises, or constitutes a 
nuisance or violates any statute, ordinance, rule, or regulations applicable to the Premises 
or for any illegal purpose or cause any lien, charge or other encumbrance to be imposed on 
the Premises or any portion thereof. 
5. 
Compliance with Laws. The Tenant shall comply with the requirements of 
all duly constituted public authorities and with the terms of all statutes, rules, ordinances, 
orders and regulations of any federal, state and local authority, which are applicable to the 
Tenant's use, and occupation of the Premises. 
6. 
Condition of Premises. The Tenant accepts the Premises and Common Areas 
in their present condition and acknowledges that the Landlord has no obligation to make 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 42 of 66
repairs or perform any work required to adapt the Premises to the Tenant's use except as 
listed in 6(a) below.  
(a) The Landlord shall not perform any improvements to the leased area. 
(b) The Tenant, at its sole expense, may undertake the following alterations 
and improvements to the premises with the written permission of Landlord. Any 
alterations or improvements to the premises that are attached to the building, whether at 
Landlord or Tenant expense, shall become a part of the building and the property of the 
Landlord. However, at the termination of the lease or any extension thereof, upon notice 
from the Landlord, Tenant shall remove any improvements added under this lease, or 
reverse any alterations and return the leased premises to the Landlord in its' original 
condition, normal wear and tear excepted. 
 
7. Access and Operating Hours. The Tenant shall permit the Landlord (and all agents, 
representatives and employees of the Landlord) to enter upon the Premises at all 
reasonable times during regular business hours with prior notification to Tenant except in 
the case of an emergency to inspect the Premises and to exhibit the same to prospective 
purchasers, mortgagees and tenants, appraisers, and assessors, and shall permit such entry 
at any time as required to make repairs that are the obligation of the Landlord and for any 
other business purpose or emergency. 
The Building operating hours are 8:00am-4:30pm. Monday through Friday. The Building 
will be closed on Saturday and Sunday and the following Holidays: New Year’s Day, 
Memorial Day, Independence Day (July 4), Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas 
Day. The Building may also be closed in emergency situations at the discretion of the 
Landlord. The Tenant has access to the Premises after regular operating hours and on 
holidays and weekends. All tenant access after regular operating hours requires the tenant 
to keep all exterior doors locked. 
The Tenant may not under any circumstances duplicate or copy building keys. Additional 
keys can be obtained and signed out through the Landlord. 
At the termination of the lease all keys must be returned to the Landlord. Should any 
employee of the Tenant be discharged, it will be the Tenant's responsibility to return any 
building keys that were assigned to the discharged employee to the Landlord. 
 
8. 
Maintenance and Repairs and Leasehold Improvements. 
(a) 
Except as herein specifically provided, the Tenant shall keep the 
Premises, the Landlord's fixtures and appurtenances therein, and the Tenant's own 
personal property situate thereon, clean and in good order and repair throughout the Term. 
If the Tenant shall fail to take good care of the Premises or to make the repairs and perform 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 43 of 66
the maintenance required herein, or in the event of damage or injury to the Premises due 
to the Tenant's act or negligence, the Landlord may maintain and repair the same at the 
sole cost and expense of the Tenant and the cost thereof shall be payable by the Tenant as 
added rent thirty (30) days after submission to the Tenant of a written statement of the 
amount due. 
(b) 
The Landlord shall be responsible for the maintenance of the 
structure of the Building, including but not limited to replacement of broken glass, the 
repair of interior plumbing and electrical wiring, and the repair of all Landlord's fixtures 
and appurtenances and all structural repairs to the Premises, unless the condition 
necessitating the structural repairs shall have been caused by the act or negligence of the 
Tenant. 
(c) 
The Landlord is not in responsible for replacing lost, damaged or 
stolen furniture or equipment. 
9. 
Assignment and Sublease. Tenant shall not have the right to assign this Lease or 
sublet any portion of the leased Premises without the prior written consent of Landlord. 
Notwithstanding any assignment or sublease, Tenant shall remain liable under the terms and 
conditions of this Lease. Landlord may assign its interest in this Lease to a wholly owned 
subsidiary of Landlord. 
10. 
Alterations, Improvements, and Information Technology Systems. 
 (a) Alterations and Improvements. The Tenant shall not make any material 
alterations, improvement or additions to the Premises without the prior written consent of 
the Landlord, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Tenant shall in all 
cases obtain at its expense all required permits and approvals and cause all work to be done 
in a good and workmanlike manner and in compliance with all requirements of 
governmental bodies having jurisdiction with respect to the Premises. The Tenant agrees 
to indemnify and save the Landlord harmless as to, and to defend the Landlord against, any 
mechanic's claims and liens asserted or filed with respect to any work performed by the 
Tenant on the Premises at any time during the Term. 
 
(b) 
Tenant's Contractor. Any work performed by the Tenant shall be 
compliance with all State and City building codes. The Tenant shall submit complete 
construction plans and specifications to the Landlord for written permission prior to the 
start of work. 
The Tenant shall obtain local building permits at it sole expense for any work performed. 
(c) 
Information Technology Network. The Tenant shall not make 
alterations, improvement or additions to the Information Technology Systems at the 
Premises without the prior written consent of the Landlord. The Information Technology 
Systems include Internet, Local Area Network (LAN), hubs, switches, and routers. 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 44 of 66
11. 
Utilities Taxes and Other Services. 
(a) 
Utilities. The Landlord shall not be liable to the Tenant for damages 
in the event of an interruption in the delivery of the utility services resulting from any cause 
beyond Landlord's control, and the Tenant hereby releases the Landlord from any and all 
liability for such damages, as well as damages that may result from the bursting, stoppage 
or leakage of any water, gas, steam, sewer, waste, or drain pipe, and the property damage 
caused thereby. 
The Landlord shall provide reasonable amounts of the following utilities at its expense: 
x Water x  
Sewer x Natural Gas (for space heating) 
x 
 
Electricity 
x Removal of Municipal Waster 
(b) 
Taxes. Note withstanding 3(d) above, the Tenant shall pay any and 
all real estate taxes (or taxes levied and imposed in lieu of real estate taxes as under present 
laws) and all special and regular municipal claims and assessments levied or imposed 
thereon during the Term on a pro-rata basis agreed to by Landlord and Tenant in the year 
in which they are levied or imposed. (Currently there are no such taxes assessed annually 
on the building or property.) 
(c) 
Recycling. The Tenant agrees to source separate all recyclable 
materials including but not limited to paper products, periodicals, newspapers, plastic, 
glass and aluminum in accordance with Landlord supplied guidelines. 
(d) 
Other Services. The Tenant shall pay all charges for its telephone 
service. Upon request of Tenant, other services including, but not limited to, Internet 
service, photocopying and facsimile use may be available at an additional charge. 
(e) 
Heating and Cooling. The Landlord shall furnish heated and cooled 
air to the leased space during the following hours: 8 A.M. to 5 P.M., Monday through 
Friday. There will be reduced heat and no cooled air at other times and on Saturdays, 
Sunday and holidays. 
(f) 
Janitorial. Only limited janitorial service will be provided by the 
Landlord within the leased space.  
12. 
Hazardous and Radioactive Materials. The storage of any chemicals, hazardous or 
radioactive materials, or hazardous substances must be in compliance with federal, state, and 
local laws. The Tenant shall submit all Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS 's) for chemicals, 
hazardous or radioactive materials, and hazardous substances stored on the Premises to the 
Landlord on annual basis (January of each year). The Tenant must declare a point of contact, 
including appropriate telephone numbers, to be included the Building Safety Plan in the case of 
an emergency. The Tenant may also be required to submit a safety plan to the Landlord. 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 45 of 66
13. 
Insurance. 
(a) 
Public Liability Insurance. 
(i) 
Tenant shall, at its own expense, during the Initial Lease Term and 
any Extended Lease Term(s), maintain in effect, comprehensive general 
public liability insurance against liability for bodily injury (including 
death) and for property damage occurring in, on or about the Premises. 
Such insurance shall be in the amount of not less than One Million 
($1,000,000.00) Dollars, single limit for injury to any one person, and in 
an amount of not less than Three Million ($3,000,000.00) Dollars for 
bodily injuries (including death) to any number of persons in any one 
occurrence, and not less than Five Hundred Thousand ($500,000.00) 
Dollars for damage to property, in connection with Tenant's use and 
occupancy of the Leased Premises, unless such damage or injuries arise as 
a consequence of the negligence of Landlord or its agents, servants, 
invitees, other tenants or employees. Such policies shall name Tenant as 
the insured party, and Landlord as an additional insured. Each such policy 
shall provide that it shall not be cancelable without at least thirty (30) days 
prior written notice to Landlord. This Insurance is to be by one or more 
insurance companies authorized to do business in Pennsylvania. 
(ii) Landlord shall secure and maintain general public liability insurance 
on the Property insuring itself against death, personal injuries or damage 
to property in amounts at least equal to the insurance carried by Tenant 
under this paragraph. Landlord shall furnish Tenant with certificates from 
its insurance companies evidencing such coverage if requested by Tenant. 
(b) 
Casualty Insurance. 
(i) 
Landlord shall, at its own expense, during the Initial Lease Term and 
any Extended Term(s), maintain fire, casualty and extended coverage 
insurance on the Property and all improvements now or later made to the 
Property insuring the Property for its full replacement value. 
 
(ii) Tenant shall be responsible for maintaining casualty insurance on all 
equipment, fixtures, furniture, and other personal property of Tenant on or 
in the Leased Premises. 
 
(c) Waiver of Subrogation. Each of the parties hereto hereby releases the other, 
to the extent of the releasing party's insurance coverage, from any and all 
liability for any loss or damage covered by such insurance which may be 
inflicted upon the property of such party even if such loss or damage shall be 
brought about by the fault or negligence of the other party, its agents or 
employees; provided, however, that this release, set forth in this Paragraph, 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 46 of 66
shall be effective only with respect to loss or damage occurring during such 
time as the appropriate policy of insurance shall be in effect and shall contain 
a clause providing that this release shall not affect said policy or the right of 
the insured to recover there under. 
14. 
Indemnity. Tenant agrees to defend, indemnify and hold harmless, Landlord 
against any  and all claims, losses, liabilities, costs and expenses arising in connection with the 
conduct or management of Tenant's business on the leased Premises or its use of the leased 
Premises during the Term of this Lease, including any extension or renewal thereof. Tenant's 
obligation to indemnify Landlord as set forth in this paragraph shall survive the termination of 
this Lease. 
15. 
Damage or Destruction. 
(a) 
Notice to Landlord. If the Premises or any structures or 
improvements on the Premises should be damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, or other 
casualty, Tenant shall give immediate written notice of the damage or destruction to 
Landlord, including a description of the damage and, as far as known to Tenant, the cause 
of the damage. 
(b) 
Total or Partial Destruction. If the Building or Premises are damaged 
or destroyed by fire, flood, or other casualty, Landlord shall repair or rebuild the Premises 
at Landlord's sole option within one hundred eighty (180) days after the occurrence of 
said damage or destruction; provided, that the rebuilding or repairs can in Landlord's 
reasonable judgment be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days and at a cost not 
to exceed the amount of insurance proceeds received by Landlord for such purposes. If 
Landlord determines that it cannot repair or rebuild the Premises within one hundred 
eighty (180) days and at a cost not to exceed the amount of insurance proceeds received 
by Landlord for such purposes, then Landlord shall give Tenant written notice within 
thirty (30) days of the occurrence of said damage or destruction that Landlord will not be 
repairing or rebuilding the Premises, and this Lease shall terminate, and the rent shall be 
abated for the unexpired portion of this Lease. 
16. 
Condemnation. 
(a) 
Total Condemnation. If the whole of the Premises shall be taken by 
any public or quasi-public authority under the power of eminent domain, condemnation, 
or expropriation or in the event of a conveyance in lieu thereof or if any part of the 
Building is taken by condemnation, then this Lease shall terminate on the date when title 
vests in the condemning authority, and rent shall abate and neither party shall have any 
further obligations hereunder except for obligations which arise prior to such date or 
which survive such termination on their own terms. 
(b) 
Partial Condemnation. If any part of the Premises shall be taken or 
conveyed and if such partial taking or conveyance shall, in Tenant's sole opinion, render 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 47 of 66
the Premises unsuitable for the business of the Tenant, then the term of the Lease shall 
cease and terminate as of the date on which title to the Premises vests in the condemning 
authority. In the event such partial taking or conveyance is not extensive enough to render 
the Premises unsuitable for the business of Tenant, this Lease shall continue in full force 
and effect except that the rent shall be adjusted equitably during the unexpired portion of 
the Lease.  
17. Default. 
(a) Tenant's Default. Each of the following events shall be deemed to be events of 
default by Tenant under this Lease: 
(i) 
If Tenant shall fail to pay any installment of rent or any other sum 
payable to Landlord when due and such failure shall continue uncured for 
a period of fifteen (15) days after the same shall become due and payable; 
or 
(ii) If Tenant shall fail to perform or observe any of the other covenants, 
terms or conditions contained in this Lease within thirty (30) days after 
written notice by Landlord; or 
(iii) If a receiver or trustee is appointed to take possession of all or a 
substantial portion of the assets of Tenant; or 
(iv) If Tenant makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or 
(v) 
If any bankruptcy, reorganization, moratorium, insolvency, creditor 
adjustment or debt rehabilitation proceedings or the like are instituted by 
or against Tenant under any state or federal law; or 
(vi) If Tenant becomes insolvent; or 
(vii) If Tenant vacates or abandons the Premises. 
(b) Remedies for Tenant's Default. On the occurrence of any event of default 
specified in Paragraph 17(a) Landlord may, at Landlord' s sole option, pursue any 
one or more of the following remedies: 
(i) Upon three (3) days' written notice to Tenant, declare to be 
immediately due and payable, all rent due hereunder for the unexpired 
portion of the term; 
(ii) Terminate this Lease on at least five (5) days notice to Tenant; 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 48 of 66
(iii) Enter upon and repossess the Premises by summary proceedings, 
ejectment or otherwise, and dispossess Tenant and remove Tenant and all 
other persons and property from the Premises and have, hold and enjoy 
the Premises and the rents and profits from it. Landlord may, in its own 
name as agent for Tenant if this Lease has not been terminated or on its 
own behalf of this Lease has been terminated, relet the Premises or any 
part of it for such term or terms and on such conditions and provisions as 
Landlord in its sole discretion may determine, and apply the proceeds of 
such re-renting against accelerated rent and all other sums due to Landlord 
hereunder; and/or 
(iv) 
 Exercise any remedy available to it at law or in equity. 
(c) 
Landlord's Default. If Landlord defaults in its performance of any 
term, covenant, or condition required to be performed by it under this Lease, 
Tenant may elect to do the following: 
  (i) After not less than five (5) day's written notice to Landlord, Tenant 
may remedy such default by any necessary action and, in connection with 
such remedy, may pay expenses and employ counsel. All sums expended 
or obligations incurred by Tenant in connection with remedying Landlord's 
default shall be paid by Landlord to Tenant on demand. 
(d) 
Cumulative Remedies. Notwithstanding anything contained in this 
Lease to the contrary, Tenant's sole remedy for a breach of any covenant of 
Landlord hereunder shall be a proceeding against Landlord for money damages. 
Tenant shall have no right, by reason of Landlord's default hereunder, to terminate 
this Lease, to cease paying rent, or to offset any damages claimed by Tenant 
against Landlord for any rent due hereunder. Except as provided herein, pursuit of 
any of the remedies provided in this Lease by either Landlord or Tenant shall not 
preclude pursuit of any of the other remedies provided in this Lease or by law. 
18. 
Consent. It is agreed that in all cases where the consent of the Landlord is 
required, such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. 
19. 
Notice. All notice required under this Lease shall be in writing and given or 
served personally or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested and postage 
prepaid, addressed to the Landlord or the Tenant, as the case may be, at the address set 
forth in the introductory paragraph of this Lease, or to such other address as either party 
may hereafter direct by notice given in like manner, all written notices to be effective upon 
delivery if personally served or when mailed, as shown by the official Post Office receipt 
of mailing. 
20. 
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment. Landlord covenants and agrees that if Tenant 
shall perform or observe all of the obligations and covenants to be performed or observed 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 49 of 66
hereunder in accordance with the terms hereof, then Tenant shall have peaceable and quiet 
enjoyment of the premises, without hindrance or molestation by Landlord or by any one 
claiming through or under Landlord. 
21. 
Counterparts. This Lease may be executed in several counterparts, all of 
which constitute one and the same instrument. 
22. 
No Brokerage. The Tenant hereby represents and warrants that it has had no 
undisclosed dealings or consultations with any person or entity in the negotiations leading 
to the execution of this Lease that might or could result in a claim for real estate 
commission or fee, and the Tenant hereby agrees to indemnify and save the Landlord 
harmless as to, and to defend the Landlord against, all liability by reason of the assertion 
of such a claim by any undisclosed person or entity.  
23. 
Excusable Delay. This Lease and the obligation of the Tenant to pay rent 
hereunder and to perform and comply with all of the other covenants and agreements on 
the part of the Tenant to be performed and complied with, shall in no way be affected, 
impaired or excused because of any delay, failure, or inability of the Landlord to fulfill or 
perform any of its obligations under this Lease other than the obligation to deliver 
occupancy, if the delay, failure or inability is the result of: (a) strikes or labor disputes; (b) 
regulation of any governmental authority or agency or any department or subdivision 
thereof; (d) conditions of supply and demand which have been or are affected by war or 
other emergency; or (e) of any other cause beyond the Landlord's reasonable control. Any 
delays hereinabove specified shall be deemed an "excusable delay.” 
24. 
Construction. This Lease shall be construed in accordance with the laws of 
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. If one or more of the provisions of this Lease shall 
for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any respect, such 
invalidity, illegality, or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Lease 
and this Lease shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had 
never been contained herein. 
25. 
Entire Agreement. This Lease contains all the agreements and conditions 
between the parties hereto and supersedes any prior understandings or written or oral 
agreements between the parties respecting the within subject matter and no additions, 
alterations or changes in this Lease shall be binding unless set forth in a writing signed by 
all parties hereto. 
26. 
Successors and Assigns. The terms "Landlord" and "Tenant" shall be deemed 
to include their heirs, personal representatives, successors and assigns, and this Lease shall 
inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Landlord, the Tenant and such heirs, 
personal representative, successors and assigns, subject to the restriction on assignment 
and subletting herein set forth. The use of the singular term in all cases shall be deemed 
to include the plural. 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 50 of 66
27. 
Pennsylvania Law to Govern. This Agreement is being delivered in the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and shall be construed and enforced in accordance with 
the laws of such State. 
28. 
Non-Discrimination. The Tenant agrees to provide services without 
discrimination to all persons regardless of age, race, color, religion, sex, handicap or 
national origin. 
In Witness Whereof the parties have executed this Lease the day and year first above written, 
intending to be legally bound. 
 
LUZERNE COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA 
 
 
 
_________________________________________ 
By: C. David Pedri, Esq., County Manager 
 
 
TENANT: 
 
 
 
__________________________________________ 
By: Michael T. Vough, President Judge 
 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 51 of 66
No. 2020-___ 
 
ORDINANCE 
 
An Ordinance of County Council for the County of Luzerne  
Adopting the 2021 Long-Range Operational, Fiscal and Capital Plan for Luzerne County 
 
WHEREAS pursuant to section 5.17 of the Luzerne County Home Rule Charter, the County 
Manager is required to submit to County Council a long-range plan for public operations and services, 
fiscal policy and capital improvements covering at least the three subsequent fiscal years; and  
 
 
WHEREAS, the plan proposed contains two sections: the “Long-Range Financial Plan” detailing 
spending and revenue sources in the 2021 General Fund Budget, as well as, financial projections through 
2024 and, secondly, the “Luzerne County Capital Project Planning” detailing the capital projects 
requiring funding and ranking of projects in order of need; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, County Council for Luzerne desires to adopt the 2021 Long-Range Operational, 
Fiscal and Capital Plan (“Capital Plan”) as set forth in the attached Plan. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the following is hereby ENACTED and ORDAINED by the Luzerne 
County Council: 
 
SECTION ONE.  Incorporation of Preamble. 
 
 
The provisions set forth in the preamble to this Ordinance are incorporated herein by reference in 
their entirety. 
 
SECTION TWO.  Approval of the 2021 Long-Range Operational, Fiscal and Capital Plan 
 
 
County Council hereby approves the attached 2021 Capital Plan which is incorporated herein by 
reference.  
 
 
SECTION THREE.  Effective Date. 
 
 
This Ordinance shall become effective fifteen (15) days after enactment. 
 
 
 
Enacted by County Council, this ____ day of ________________, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 52 of 66
LUZERNE COUNTY COUNCIL 
 
AYES: 
NAYS: 
 
 
 
 
Attest:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            ____________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tim McGinley, Chair 
 
 
 
__________________________________ 
Sharon Lawrence, Clerk of County Council 
 
 
 
                             
 
____________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chris Perry, Vice-Chair 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 53 of 66
Page 1 of 5
Description
 Cost 
 194 Fund 
Balance 
Comments
194 Bond Fund Balance as of 12/31/2016
 $ 11,278,489 
The D.A. Nolt settlement of $475,000 is included in this total. It also has the associated 
legal costs totaling $89,305 included.
194 Bond Fund Balance as of 12/31/2017
 $   8,548,259 
194 Bond Fund Balance as of 12/31/2018
 $   5,069,552 
194 Bond Fund Balance as of 12/31/2019
 $   4,516,092 
Funds ($3,000,000) added from Reserve by Ordinance No. 2019-01 and New Project 
created by Ordinance No. 2019-02 (Approved at 1/22/2019 Meeting).
194 Bond Fund Balance as of 5/11/2020
 $   3,722,348 
 $   3,722,348 
2016/2017 Capital Projects - Project Balance Due
 $     (222,854)  $   3,499,494 
Remaining balance due on uncompleted 2016/2017 projects
2018 Capital Projects -Project Balance Due
 $                   -  $   3,499,494 
Remaining balance due on uncompleted 2018 projects
2019 Capital Projects - Project Balance Due
 $     (352,950)  $   3,146,544 
Remaining balance due on uncompleted 2019 projects
2020 Capital Projects - Project Balance Due
 $  (1,258,434)  $   1,888,110 
Remaining balance due on uncompleted 2020 projects
Proposed 2021 Capital Projects
 $     (550,000)  $   1,338,110 
Balance of available 194 Bond Fund
 $   1,338,110 
Luzerne County Capital Projects Annual Bond Summary 
May 28, 2020
Capital Projects Bond Balance Summary
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 54 of 66
Page 2 of 5
No.
Project 
Code
Description
Estimated 
Cost
Funding 
Code
Comments
Project 
Manager
1
100.87
Penn Place Window Flashing
$100,000
194
This project involves the re-flashing of all leaking windows at the Penn Place Building.
O'Neill
2
700.73
County Highway Lighting LED Upgrade
$100,000
194
The project is the rehabilitation and upgrade to LED of the County Highway Lighting System on the Cross Valley Expressway.
McIntoch
3
100.88
LCCF Elevators Modernization
$350,000
194
This Project consists of the modernization of the motor system and controls for two elevators in the Main Prison of the LCCF.
Total Estimated Cost:
$550,000
Proposed 2021 - 2023 Capital Projects to be funded by 194 Bond Fund
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 55 of 66
Page 3 of 5
No
Project #
Adopted 
for Year
Status
Project Description
Approved 
Budget
Actual Cost
Funds Used
Balance Due
Budgeted 
Funds 
Available
Comments
1
100.18
2017
In Progress
Wilkes Barre / Wyoming Airport 10,000 Gallon Jet A AST Fuel Tank & AVGas
$100,000
$100,000
$0
$100,000
$0
Project is being funded by a State BOA Grant. Funds to used for match.
2
100.55
2017
Complete
Broad Street Business Exchange Roof Replacement
$375,000
$303,660
$303,660
$0
$71,340
3
100.58
2017
Complete
Sprinkler Head Replacement at DRO
$35,000
$30,000
$30,000
$0
$5,000
4
100.59
2017
Complete
Demolition of the Veterans Affairs Garage
$50,000
$50,000
$50,000
$0
$0
5
100.61
2017
Complete
County Building Emergency Fund
$60,000
$60,000
$60,000
$0
$0
6
500.03
2017
Complete
Courthouse Interior Restoration, Phase I
$800,000
$800,000
$800,000
$0
$0
7
700.14
2017
Complete
Road Repair / Replacement Bundling Project
$1,000,000
$1,000,000
$1,000,000
$0
$0
8
800.18
2017
Complete
GIS Web Integration
$46,000
$46,000
$36,798
$9,202
$0
Remaining funds to be used for annual maintenance.
9
800.19
2017
Complete
Metropolitan Area Network Fiber Upgrade
$140,000
$140,000
$140,000
$0
$0
10
800.20
2017
Complete
Luzerne County Website Upgrade
$150,000
$150,000
$121,347
$28,653
$0
11
800.21
2017
Complete
911 Tower Site Improvements, Phase I
$850,000
$850,000
$850,000
$0
$0
12
1200.05
2017
On Hold
Wilkes Barre / Wyoming Airport Terminal Masonry Restoration
$50,000
$50,000
$0
$50,000
$0
The project is on hold pending the completion of the Airport Master Plan.
13
1600.13
2017
Complete
Vehicle Fleet Upgrade
$50,000
$50,000
$50,000
$0
$0
14
2300.04
2017
Complete
Records Storage Facility (Shelving)
$110,000
$110,000
$110,000
$0
$0
15
2400.09
2016
On Hold
LCCF Add security to Lobby Area
$75,000
$75,000
$40,000
$35,000
$0
LCCF to use in house staff to complete per design. Project is on hold.
2016-2017 Project Cost Total:
$3,891,000
$3,814,660
$3,591,806
$222,854
$76,340
16
100.62
2018
Complete
Tannery Street Pole Building
$84,500
$84,500
$84,500
$0
$0
17
100.63
2018
Complete
Voter Machine Building Improvements
$250,000
$250,000
$250,000
$0
$0
18
100.64
2018
Complete
Penn Place Building Roof Replacement
$325,000
$321,601
$321,601
$0
$3,399
19
100.65
2018
Complete
Courthouse Annex Improvements
$50,000
$50,000
$50,000
$0
$0
20
100.66
2018
Complete
Courthouse West Entrance Improvements 
$200,000
$200,000
$200,000
$0
$0
21
100.67
2018
Complete
Countywide Elevator Modernization
$125,000
$125,000
$125,000
$0
$0
22
500.04
2018
Complete
Courthouse Interior Restoration Phase I - Priority 2
$1,284,350
$1,284,350
$1,284,350
$0
$0
23
2300.05
2018
Complete
Public Access Area at Records Storage Building
$500,000
$500,000
$500,000
$0
$0
24
2300.06
2018
Complete
Records Storage Building Lighting and Floor Improvements
$200,000
$200,000
$200,000
$0
$0
25
2400.10
2018
Complete
LCCF Elevator No. 2 Repair
$70,000
$63,875
$63,875
$0
$6,125
26
2400.11
2018
Complete
LCCF Security Improvements
$600,000
$600,000
$600,000
$0
$0
27
2400.12
2018
Complete
LCCF Control Panel Replacement
$100,000
$100,000
$100,000
$0
$0
2018 Project Cost Total:
$3,788,850
$3,779,326
$3,779,326
$0
$9,524
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 56 of 66
Page 4 of 5
No
Project #
Adopted 
for Year
Status
Project Description
Approved 
Budget
Actual Cost
Funds Used
Balance Due
Budgeted 
Funds 
Available
Comments
28
500.05
2019
Complete
Courthouse Interior Restoration Phase II
$650,000
$650,000
$650,000
$0
$0
29
100.68
2019
In Progress
Countywide Parking Lot Rehabilitation
$200,000
$200,000
$0
$200,000
$0
Project is under contract and be completed in 2020.
30
100.69
2019
In Progress
Human Services Parking Lot Restoration
$150,000
$150,000
$0
$150,000
$0
Project is under contract and be completed in 2020.
31
100.70
2019
In Progress
Countywide Emergency Building Fund
$150,000
$150,000
$147,050
$2,950
$0
Funds were used for emergency repairs to County owned buildings such 
as the Parkade Tower Emergency Repairs, LCCF Sidewalks and 
Records Building Storm Drains.
2019 Project Cost Total:
$1,150,000
$1,150,000
$797,050
$352,950
$0
32
100.71
2020
In Progress
Countywide Emergency Building Fund
$403,000
$403,000
$0
$403,000
$0
33
100.72
2020
In Progress
Countywide Parking Lot Rehabilitation Phase II
$200,000
$200,000
$0
$200,000
$0
Funds are being used to complete drainage improvements in 2020.
34
100.73
2020
Complete
County Parkade Tower Rehabilitation
$200,000
$197,283
$197,283
$2,717
35
100.74
2020
In Progress
County Parkade Garage Rehabilitation
$300,000
$300,000
$0
$300,000
Project is scheduled for bid in June 2020 with contraction this year.
36
100.75
2020
Complete
DRO Building - Chiller Tower Replacement
$50,000
$50,000
$50,000
$0
$0
37
800.22
2020
In Progress
Storage Area Network (SAN) Capacity Upgrade 
$59,000
$59,000
$59,000
$0
$0
38
800.23
2020
In Progress
Unified Computing System (UCS) Upgrade
$154,000
$154,000
$99,664
$54,336
$0
39
800.24
2020
In Progress
Workstation Upgrades
$250,000
$250,000
$46,342
$203,658
$0
40
800.25
2020
On Hold
Windows 10 Upgrade
$40,000
$40,000
$0
$40,000
$0
Project started and is currently on hold due to coronavirus.
41
1900.05
2020
In Progress
Security Camera Project
$300,000
$300,000
$245,277
$54,723
$0
2020 Project Cost Total:
$1,956,000
$1,953,283
$697,566
$1,258,434
$0
 - 
Completed
 - 
Pending/On Hold
 - 
In Progress
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 57 of 66
Page 5 of 5
No.
Project 
Code
Description
Estimated 
Cost
Funding 
Code
Comments
Project 
Manager
1
700.74
CB26307 Hillside Road Bridge, Kingston Township
$2,000,000
210
Bridge replacement project for a 63' span steel girder bridge over Toby's Creek. PennDOT matching funds to be used.
Plesh
2
700.75
CB47407 Baer Road Bridge, Union Township
$125,000
211
Bridge rehabilitation project for a 3' stone arch culvert over a banch of Shickshinny Creek.
Plesh
3
700.76
CB47408 Baer Road Bridge, Union Township
$200,000
211
Bridge replacement project for a 5' concrete slab bridge over a banch of Shickshinny Creek.
Plesh
4
700.77
CB47410 Krushka Road Bridge, Union Township
$125,000
211
Bridge rehabilitation project for a 8' stone arch culvert over a banch of Shickshinny Creek.
Plesh
5
700.78
CB47411 Krushka Road Bridge, Union Township
$125,000
211
Bridge rehabilitation project for a 5' stone arch culvert over a banch of Shickshinny Creek.
Plesh
6
700.79
CB47413 Krushka Road Bridge, Union Township
$125,000
211
Bridge rehabilitation project for a 7' stone arch culvert over a banch of Shickshinny Creek.
Plesh
7
700.80
CB46603 West Cherry Road Bridge, Nescopeck Township
$300,000
201
Bridge rehabilitation project for a 32' span dual stone arch culvert over Nescopeck Creek.
Plesh
8
700.81
CB46601 Karchners Road Bridge, Nescopeck Township
$100,000
207
Bridge rehabilitation project for a 26' concrete adjacent box beam bridge over Nescopeck Creek.
Plesh
9
700.82
CB57309 East County Road Bridge, Sugarloaf Township
$1,000,000
211
Bridge replacement project for a 57' concrete rigid frame bridge over Little Nescopeck Creek.
Plesh
11
700.83
CB47108 Market Street Bridge, Salem Township
$400,000
207
Bridge replacement project for a 25' concrete slab bridge over Beach Haven Creek.
Plesh
12
700.84
CB47414 Mountain Road Bridge, Union Township
$400,000
211
Bridge superstructure replacement project for a 14' concrete adjacent box beam bridge over a banch of Shickshinny Creek.
Plesh
13
700.85
CB54710 Middle Road Bridge, ButlerTownship
$60,000
211
Bridge rehabilitation project for a 8' concrete box culvert over Little Nescopeck Creek.
Plesh
14
700.86
CB54711 Middle Road Bridge, ButlerTownship
$60,000
211
Bridge rehabilitation project for a 4' concrete slab bridge over a banch of Little Nescopeck Creek.
Plesh
15
700.87
CB54712 Middle Road Bridge, ButlerTownship
$250,000
211
Bridge replacement project for a 6' concrete slab bridge over Little Nescopeck Creek.
Plesh
16
700.88
CB54714 Saams Road Bridge, ButlerTownship
$250,000
211
Bridge replacement project for a 11' concrete slab bridge over a banch of Little Nescopeck Creek.
Plesh
17
700.89
CR1 Main Road, Hunlock/Ross Townships
$2,700,000
200
This is a Full Depth Reclamation project.
Plesh
18
700.90
CR30 Hobbie Road, Dorrance/Hollenback Townships
$2,300,000
200
This is a Full Depth Reclamation project.
Plesh
19
700.91
CR63 Sweet Valley Road, Ross Township
$1,250,000
200
This is a Full Depth Reclamation project.
Plesh
20
700.92
CR12 Lower Demunds Road, Dallas Township
$1,600,000
200
This is a Full Depth Reclamation project.
Plesh
21
700.93
CR64 Bloomingdale Road, Ross Township
$1,300,000
200
This is a Full Depth Reclamation project.
Plesh
22
700.94
CR31 St John's Road, Dorrance/Hollenback Townships
$2,000,000
200
This is a Full Depth Reclamation project.
Plesh
Column Totals
$16,670,000
200 Fund - Liquid Fuels
201 Fund - Act 44
207 Fund - Act 89
210 Fund - $5 Regestration Fee
211 Fund - CDBG Grant
Non 194 Bond Capital Projects 2021
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 58 of 66
1
Lawrence, Sharon
From:
Lee Horton <LHorton@lctabus.com>
Sent:
Tuesday, May 26, 2020 6:04 PM
To:
Lawrence, Sharon
Cc:
Kathy Bednarek; Randy Lisman
Subject:
[EXTERNAL]: FW: LCTA Scanned Document
Attachments:
lctascan.pdf
________________________________ 
 WARNING: This message is from an external email address. Do not click any links or open any attachments unless you 
recognize the sender AND you know that the contents of the email are safe to open. 
________________________________ 
 
Sharon, 
        Tonight we got the Board approval that we needed to present to the County. Any questions please let me know. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Lee Horton 
Interim Executive Director 
Luzerne County Transportation Authority 
315 Northampton Street 
Kingston, Pa. 18704 
(570) 288‐9356 Ext. 218 
(570) 288‐7327 Fax 
lhorton@lctabus.com 
 
‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐ 
From: Office Service (LCTA) <office‐service@lctabus.com> 
Sent: Tuesday, May 26, 2020 5:55 PM 
To: Lee Horton <LHorton@lctabus.com> 
Subject: LCTA Scanned Document 
 
Hello, 
 
The scanned document that you asked for has been attached to this email. Please do not reply. 
 
You can email helpdesk@lctabus.com for any problems with this scan or its attachment. 
 
Best regards, 
 
Luzerne County Transportation Authority 
If you have concerns about the validity of this message, contact the sender directly, or the Luzerne County IT 
Department at Cybersecurity@LuzerneCounty.org 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 59 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 60 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 61 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 62 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 63 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 64 of 66
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 65 of 66
RESOLUTION R-2019- 
LUZERNE COUNTY COUNCIL 
 
A Resolution of the Luzerne County Council Committing a Local Match for State Operating 
Assistance for the Hazleton Public Transit. 
 
WHEREAS, Hazleton Public Transit has been advised by the Pennsylvania Department of 
Transportation it is eligible to receive State Operating Assistance funds in the amount of 
$2,174,972.00 for FY 2020-21; and 
 
WHEREAS, Section 1513 of Title 74 of the Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes requires a 
local match in order for Hazleton Public Transit to receive State Operating Assistance Funds; and 
 
WHEREAS, the local match needed is $180,036.00; and 
 
WHEREAS, Hazleton Public Transit requests to receive this local match from Luzerne County 
in order to receive the State Operating Assistance funds; and 
 
WHEREAS, Luzerne County Council desires to provide Hazleton Public Transit a local match 
in order for them to be eligible to receive State Operating Assistance Funds. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Luzerne County Council agrees to provide 
local match funds to Hazleton Public Transit in the amount of $180,036.00. 
 
This Resolution shall become effective 6 days after adoption. 
 
ADOPTED at a meeting of the Luzerne County Council held on __________________. 
 
ROLL CALL VOTE (     ) 
YES:  
NO:    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LUZERNE COUNTY COUNCIL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: ______________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tim McGinley, Chair 
Attest:_____________________________ 
Sharon Lawrence, Clerk of Council  
 
 
LUZERNE COUNTY MANAGER 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
By: _______________________________ 
 
        
 
 
 
 
  C. David Pedri, Esq., County Manager 
Luzerne County Council Work Session June 09, 2020
Page 66 of 66
