  
AGENDA FOR REGULAR SESSION 
PIPERTON PLANNING COMMISSION 
June 09, 2020 6:00 P.M. 
 
 
The agenda is subject to change until formal approval by the Commission 
 
1. Call to order, establish quorum. 
 
2. Prayer and Pledge to Allegiance to the American Flag 
 
3. Any changes to the Agenda; Additions/Deletions; Motion to adopt the 
Agenda 
 
4. Any changes to the Minutes of the Regular Session of May 12, 2020; 
Motion to adopt the Minutes of the Regular Session of May 12, 2020 
 
5. LaGrange Pointe /Madeline Farms CD-O Phase Final Plat application. 
 
6. Salentine application for Master Development Plan amendment - Piperton 
Business Center Phase 2 PD-O (JS Designs) 
 
7. Eric Tucker Accessory Structure application 
 
8. Shaw’s Creek Amended – Request to modify Conditions of Approval 
 
9. Consideration of revision to Subdivision Regulations – Access and 
Connectivity 
 
10.  Any other old/new business, questions or matters from the audience 
 
11. 
  Adjournment 
 
 
 
 
NOTE:  PLEASE SEE BACK OF THE AGENDA FOR THE PROCESS AND 
RULES OF CONDUCT 
 
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, attendance at City of Piperton public meetings, including any 
advertised public hearings, will be limited in accordance with state, federal and CDC 
guidelines for public gatherings until further notice.  Any citizen wishing to speak during the 
public comments invitation or on a matter for which a public hearing is advertised, has the 
option of submitting a written statement to the City Recorder by email to 
bholloway@pipertontn.com or mailed to the City Recorder, P.O. Box 328, Collierville, TN  
38027 or dropped in the drop slot located at City Admin, 3725 Hwy 196 S, Suite B, to the left 
of the front door.  Submitted statements will be read into and made part of the record at the 
public hearing in lieu of making a statement in person. 
 
Attendance at City of Piperton public meetings is limited to 12 individuals, including 
commission members and staff.  Temperature checks will be required for all visitors, along 
with the use of a protective face mask. 
 
