1
2
 
Spirit of Rockport Award Presentation – June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
Page 1 of 1 
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA  
Regular Meeting:  June 9, 2020 
 
AGENDA ITEM:  3 
 
Presentation:  Spirit of Rockport Award 
 
SUBMITTED BY:  Mayor Patrick R. Rios 
 
APPROVED FOR AGENDA:  PKC 
 
BACKGROUND:  The "Spirit of Rockport" award was developed to recognize individuals and 
organizations who exemplify the unique spirit of Rockport. Nominees are 
those who go above and beyond to make our community a better place. 
Nominations are reviewed by the Sesquicentennial Committee with 
awards presented throughout the year at City Council meetings and other 
events.  Each recipient will receive a limited-edition, commemorative 
medal that was designed specifically for the Sesquicentennial, shown at 
right.   
 
The first “Spirit of Rockport” Award goes to Lisa Gordon, Jessee Pilgrim, 
and Mary Theiss, founders of the Aransas County PPE Sewing Group.  In 
less than two months, the three Rockport residents galvanized a 
community of sewers who provided more than 3,000 free masks for 
residents, 
nursing homes, government 
offices 
and businesses.  
Additionally, the group held four drive-by mask distribution events. 
 
The City of Rockport is accepting additional nominations for the “Spirit of Rockport” award and 
presentations will be made at future Council meetings.  Also, the City seeks to recognize the oldest 
living resident and the first child to be born in 2020.  Nomination forms are available on the 
Sesquicentennial page of the City’s web site https://cityofrockport.com/722/Sesquicentennial. 
 
FISCAL ANALYSIS:  N/A 
 
RECOMMENDATION:  Not an action item. 
3
 
Time Capsule – June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
Page 1 of 9 
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA 
Regular Meeting: Tuesday, June 9, 2020 
AGENDA ITEM: 
4 
 
Presentation:  Items from 1970 Sesquicentennial Time Capsule. 
 
SUBMITTED BY: City Manager, Kevin Carruth 
 
APPROVED FOR AGENDA:  PKC 
 
BACKGROUND: 
The time capsule from the 1970 sesquicentennial was unearthed from it 
burial place prior to the demolition of City Hall and taken to the Service Center.  The capsule was 
a stainless-steel tube, approximately 48 inches high and 18 inches in diameter and was placed 
inside a concrete vault.  As shown in Exhibit A, despite the lid being tightly fastened and no 
apparent means for water intrusion, most of the contents were wet and there was an accumulation 
of water at the bottom, likely from condensation.  Due to the moisture, many of the items were 
dirty, rusted, and generally in poor condition; however, many items did survive.   
 
The contents included many pieces of news media, budgets, audits, letters, coins, photos, etc.  Staff 
has worked diligently to save as many items as possible from the time capsule and plan to bring 
forward different pieces for recognition and display these items to the Council and public over the 
next several months.  This month we would like to bring to your attention; a promotional flyer 
(Exhibit B), the Centennial Schedule (Exhibit C), a reel to reel audio from a pageant produced for 
the event (photo as Exhibit D) and, and a cassette tape of interviews on KTOD radio (also in the 
photo as Exhibit D). 
 
Despite the questionable condition of the two audio tapes, staff reached out to KCTA AM Radio 
in Corpus Christi, who was able to direct us to Mr. Jim Wilken at Trinity Recording Studio.  Mr. 
Wilken was able to clean, play, and re-record both tapes.  The audio is now available on the City’s 
website at by clicking on the “Voices from the Past” link on the Sesquicentennial page at 
https://cityofrockport.com/788/Voices-from-the-Past:    
 
FISCAL ANALYSIS:  N/A 
 
RECOMMENDATION:  Not an action item. 
 
 
4
 
Time Capsule – June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
Page 2 of 9 
Exhibit A 
 
 
5
 
Time Capsule – June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
Page 3 of 9 
Exhibit B 
 
 
6
 
Time Capsule – June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
Page 4 of 9 
 
 
 
7
 
Time Capsule – June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
Page 5 of 9 
Exhibit C 
 
8
 
Time Capsule – June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
Page 6 of 9 
 
9
 
Time Capsule – June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
Page 7 of 9 
 
10
 
Time Capsule – June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
Page 8 of 9 
 
11
 
Time Capsule – June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
Page 9 of 9 
 
Exhibit D 
 
12
 
Minutes – June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
Page 1 of 1 
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA  
Regular Meeting:  June 9, 2020 
 
AGENDA ITEM:  6 
 
Deliberate and act on approval of City Council Regular Meeting Minutes of May 26, and Special 
Meeting Minutes of June 2, 2020. 
 
SUBMITTED BY:  City Secretary Teresa Valdez 
 
APPROVED FOR AGENDA:  PKC 
 
BACKGROUND:  Please see the accompanying minutes of the Regular Meeting of May 26, and 
Special Meeting Minutes of June 2, 2020. 
 
FISCAL ANALYSIS:  N/A 
 
RECOMMENDATION:  Staff recommends Council approve the Minutes, as presented. 
13
 
 
City of Rockport, Texas 
May 26, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes 
  
 
 
 
 
 
               
 
   Page 1 of 6 Pages 
CITY OF ROCKPORT 
 
MINUTES 
 
CITY COUNCIL REGULAR MEETING 
6:30 p.m., Tuesday, May 26, 2020 
Rockport Service Center, 2751 State Highway 35 Bypass 
 
 
On the 26th day of May 2020, the City Council of the City of Rockport, Aransas County, Texas, 
convened in Regular Session at 6:30 p.m., at the Training Room of the Rockport Service Center, 
and notice of meeting giving time, place, date and subject was posted as described in V.T.C.A., 
Government Code § 551.041. 
 
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT  
CITY COUNCIL MEMBER(S) ABSENT 
Mayor Patrick R. Rios 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mayor Pro-Tem J.D. Villa, Ward 2  
Council Member Michael Saski, Ward 1 
Council Member Bob Cunningham, Ward 3 
Council Member Barbara Gurtner, Ward 4 
Council Member Andrea Hattman, Ward 4  
 
STAFF MEMBERS PRESENT  
 
 
ELECTED OFFICIALS PRESENT 
City Manager Kevin Carruth 
 
 
 
 
Aransas County Judge C.H. “Burt” Mills, Jr. 
City Secretary Teresa Valdez  
 
 
 
 
Assistant to the City Manager Kimberly Henry 
Finance Director Katie Griffin 
Police Chief Greg Stevens 
Information Technology Director Bob Argetsinger 
 
 
 
Opening Agenda 
 
1. Call to Order. 
  
With a quorum of the Council Members present, the Regular Meeting of the Rockport City Council 
was called to order by Mayor Rios at 6:30 p.m. on Tuesday, May 26, 2020, in the Training Room 
of the Rockport Service Center, 2751 State Highway 35 Bypass, Rockport, Texas. 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance.   
 
Council Member Gurtner led the Pledge of Allegiance to the U.S. flag.  
 
3. Proclamation:  Mayor Jimmy Kendrick. 
 
Mayor Rios read a Proclamation (below) recognizing, acknowledging and thanking Town of 
Fulton Mayor Jimmy Kendrick for his undying dedication and commitment as a public servant. 
14
 
 
City of Rockport, Texas 
May 26, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes 
  
 
 
 
 
 
               
 
   Page 2 of 6 Pages 
 
 
 
Mayor Kendrick received a standing ovation. 
 
Mayor Kendrick stated when he became Mayor, he had in his mind to bring the Aransas County 
entities back together.  Mayor Kendrick said the Town of Fulton is more stable than it has ever 
been and that could not have been done without all the citizens and his Council.  Mayor Kendrick 
thanked everyone for their support. 
 
4. Citizens to be heard. 
At this time, comments will be taken from the audience on any subject matter that is not on the agenda.  To address 
the Council, please sign the speaker’s card located on the table in the back of the Training Room of the Rockport 
Service Center and deliver to the City Secretary before the meeting begins. Limit comments to three (3) minutes. In 
accordance with the Open Meetings Act, Council may not discuss or take any action on any item that has not been 
posted on the agenda.  While civil public criticism is not prohibited; disorderly conduct or disturbance of the peace as 
prohibited by law shall be cause for the chair to terminate the offender’s time to speak.  
 
There were no citizen comments. 
 
5. Presentation of Certificates of Election to re-elected official for Ward 2 and newly-elected 
official for Ward 4. 
(Presentación de certificados de elección para reelegido oficial de Barrio 2 y recién elegido 
oficial de Barrio 4). 
 
Mayor Rios presented the Certificate of Election to Andrea Hattman as the newly-elected Council 
Member for Ward 4. 
15
 
 
City of Rockport, Texas 
May 26, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes 
  
 
 
 
 
 
               
 
   Page 3 of 6 Pages 
 
Mayor Rios presented the Certificate of Election to J.D. Villa as the re-elected Council Member 
for Ward 2. 
 
6. Administration of Oath of Office to re-elected official for Ward 2 and newly-elected 
official for Ward 4.  
(Administración de se juramento del cargo el reelegido oficial de Barrio 2 y recién elegido 
oficial de Barrio 4.) 
 
Mayor Rios administered the Oath of Office to J.D. Villa, re-elected Council Member for Ward 2. 
 
Mayor Rios administered the Oath of Office to Andrea Hattman, elected Council Member for 
Ward 4. 
 
Mayor Rios thanked Council Member Gurtner for her service to the City of Rockport. 
 
Council Member Gurtner received a standing ovation. 
 
7. Deliberate and act on election by Council of Mayor Pro-Tem. 
 
MOTION:  Council Member Saski moved to nominate and elect Council Member Villa to serve 
as Mayor Pro-Tem for a term of May 2020 to May 2021 pursuant to the City of Rockport Home 
Rule Charter.  Council Member Cunningham seconded the motion.  Motion carried unanimously. 
 
Consent Agenda 
All consent agenda items listed are considered to be routine by the City Council and will be enacted by one motion.  
There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a Council Member so requests, in which event the item will 
be removed from the Consent Agenda and considered in its normal sequence on the agenda. 
 
8. Deliberate and act on approval of Regular Meeting Minutes of May 12, 2020. 
 
9. Deliberate and act on second & final reading of an Ordinance extending a moratorium, 
for 120 days, on the submission, acceptance, processing, and approval necessary for the 
creation of development plats, construction or facilities related to recreational vehicle 
(RV) parks for land within the City of Rockport; providing a savings clause; providing 
a severability clause; finding and determining that the meeting at which the Ordinance 
was passed was open to the public as required by law; and providing an effective date. 
 
Mayor Rios called for requests to remove any item from the Consent Agenda for separate 
discussion. 
 
MOTION:  Mayor Pro-Tem Villa moved to approve Consent Agenda, as presented. Council 
Member Saski seconded the motion.  Motion carried unanimously. 
 
Mayor Rios read the caption of the Ordinance for second reading listed as Item 9 on the Consent 
Agenda.  Mayor Rios stated there had been no changes in format or content to the Ordinances 
since Council approved the first readings on May 12, 2020. 
 
16
 
 
City of Rockport, Texas 
May 26, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes 
  
 
 
 
 
 
               
 
   Page 4 of 6 Pages 
Regular Agenda 
 
10. Deliberate and act on an Ordinance of the City Council of the City of Rockport, Texas, 
extending a Declaration of Local Disaster for the period of May 26 – June 9, 2020; 
establishing rules and regulations for the duration of the disaster; restricting certain 
activities; and establishing penalties for violations. 
 
Mayor Rios explained this is an extension of the Declaration of Local Disaster for the period of 
May 26 – June 9, 2020.  Mayor Rios said this is the 5th extension, to ensure the City stays in 
compliance and is eligible to receive FEMA monies for disaster related expenses. 
 
MOTION:  Mayor Pro-Tem Villa moved to adopt an Ordinance of the City Council of the City 
of Rockport, Texas, extending a Declaration of Local Disaster for the period of May 26 – June 
9, 2020; establishing rules and regulations for the duration of the disaster; restricting certain 
activities; and establishing penalties for violations.  Council Member Saski seconded the motion.  
Motion carried unanimously. 
 
11. Hear and deliberate on status of COVID-19 and response efforts. 
 
Mayor Rios stated he continued to participate in State and Federal phone calls; things are changing 
daily.  Mayor Rios said we are still waiting for results from the local COVID testing; there are 96 
people waiting to hear results.  Mayor Rios informed everyone there have been a total of five (5) 
cases in Aransas County.  Mayor Rios stated the City is going to continue to keep their public 
facilities closed for the safety of citizens and employees.  Mayor Rios added the Parks & Leisure 
Services Advisory Board and the Swimming Pool Advisory Committee both recommended the 
City not open the parks or the pool at this time. 
 
Mayor Pro-Tem Villa asked if the number of cases in Aransas County rise, do we have to drop 
back down to 25% occupancy rule. 
 
Mayor Rios answered there are three things that are to be considered if the number of cases in 
Aransas County rise; basically, we would have to have about 70 new cases. 
 
Council Member Cunningham commented if we do not have a spike in the number of cases in 
Aransas County due to the large number of people in town this weekend, we should be out of the 
woods.  
 
City Manager Kevin Carruth informed the Council for the last two utility billing cycles the City 
did not cut-off for non-payment, but the City is now going to cut-off for non-payment.  Mr. Carruth 
stated tomorrow the City will begin payment plans and there are still delinquent accounts; there 
were 450 delinquent accounts and that is now down to 157. 
 
Mayor Rios stated that was a difficult decision to make, and the utilities office has done a good 
job of working with people.  Mayor Rios expressed the City wants to make sure these delinquent 
accounts do not get to far behind. 
 
Council Member Saski asked if there were any grants that will help us in the future, and are we 
letting people know that. 
17
 
 
City of Rockport, Texas 
May 26, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes 
  
 
 
 
 
 
               
 
   Page 5 of 6 Pages 
 
Finance Director Katie Griffin answered Community Action of Victoria, Good Samaritan and local 
churches are assisting residents.  Ms. Griffin stated there are still 12 delinquent accounts from 
March. 
 
12. Reports from Council. 
At this time, the City Council will report/update on all committee assignments, which may include the following:  
Aransas County Alliance Local Government Corporation; Aransas Pathways Steering Committee; Building and 
Standards Commission; Coastal Bend Bays and Estuaries Program; Coastal Bend Council of Government; Park & 
Leisure Services Advisory Board; Planning & Zoning Commission; Rockport-Fulton Chamber of Commerce; Aransas 
County Storm Water Management Advisory Committee; Rockport Cultural Arts District, Swimming Pool Operations 
Advisory Committee; Tourism Development Council; Tree & Landscape Committee; YMCA Development 
Committee; Texas Maritime Museum, Fulton Mansion, Rockport Center for the Arts, Aransas County, Aransas 
County Independent School District, Aransas County Navigation District, Town of Fulton, and Texas Municipal 
League.  No formal action can be taken on these items at this time. 
 
Council Member Saski stated he is trying to work and stay at home.  Council Member Saski said 
this weekend was incredible with the amount of people in town; he was praying for the Police 
Chief.  Council Member Saski thanked Mayor Rios and City Manager Carruth for everything they 
continue to do for the City. 
 
Mayor Pro-Tem Villa said he is curious to see the amount of water used over the weekend.  Mayor 
Pro-Tem Villa expressed the number of people in town might have been comparable to the Fourth 
of July in 2008. 
 
Council Member Cunningham said the Aransas County Commissioners Court met this morning 
and on the agenda was approval of the preliminary phase of residential development in the City’s 
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction (ETJ) near Rattlesnake Point, and approval of a replat on Market Street 
in the City’s ETJ.  Council Member Cunningham stated the Commissioners Court approved the 
construction management agent agreement with Broaddus, and the contract for Bay Shore Drive 
final engineering and shoreline restoration. 
 
Council Member Hattman said she attended a ZOOM meeting taking comments for Gulf Shore 
Villas; four to five people spoke in favor and only one negative comment.  Council Member 
Hattman thanked the Police Department for a great job this past weekend.  Council Member 
Hattman expressed she is excited to work with everyone. 
 
Mayor Rios stated the City is progressing as usually and staff is being kept busy chasing FEMA 
reimbursement.  Mayor Rios said the City is working with the Economic Development 
Administration on the grant for the Rockport Center for the Arts. 
 
Executive Session. 
 
City Council will hold an executive session pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 551 of the 
Texas Government Code, in accordance with the authority contained in:  
 
13. Section 551.071(2) Consultation with Attorney: On a matter in which the duty of the 
attorney to the governmental body under the Texas Disciplinary Rules of Professional 
Conduct of the State Bar of Texas clearly conflicts with this chapter – memorandum of 
18
 
 
City of Rockport, Texas 
May 26, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes 
  
 
 
 
 
 
               
 
   Page 6 of 6 Pages 
agreement regarding Kline Building. 
 
At 7:05 p.m., Mayor Rios convened the Rockport City Council into an executive session pursuant 
to provisions of Chapter 551 of the Texas Government Code, in accordance with the authority 
contained in Section 551.071(2) Consultation with Attorney on a matter in which the duty of the 
attorney to the governmental body under the Texas Disciplinary Rules of Professional Conduct of 
the State Bar of Texas clearly conflicts with this chapter – memorandum of agreement regarding 
Kline Building.  
 
Open Session 
 
City Council will reconvene into open session pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 551 of 
the Texas Government Code to take any actions necessary related to the executive sessions 
noted herein, or regular agenda items, noted above, and/or related items. 
 
At 8:28 p.m., Mayor Rios reconvened the Rockport City Council into open session pursuant to the 
provisions of Chapter 551 of the Texas Government Code to take any necessary actions related to 
the executive sessions noted herein, or regular agenda items, noted above, and/or related items. 
 
No action was taken. 
 
14. Adjournment. 
 
At 8:28 p.m., Mayor Pro-Tem Villa moved to adjourn.   Motion was seconded by Council Member 
Cunningham.  Motion carried unanimously. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patrick R. Rios, Mayor  
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
______________________________ 
Teresa Valdez, City Secretary 
19
City of Rockport, Texas 
June 2, 2020 City Council Special Meeting Minutes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Page 1 of 4 Pages 
CITY OF ROCKPORT 
 
MINUTES 
 
CITY COUNCIL SPECIAL MEETING 
1:30 p.m., Tuesday, June 2, 2020 
Rockport Service Center, 2751 State Highway 35 Bypass 
 
On the 2nd day of June 2020, the City Council of the City of Rockport, Aransas County, Texas, 
convened in Special Session at 1:30 p.m., at the Training Room of the Rockport Service Center, and 
notice of meeting giving time, place, date and subject was posted as described in V.T.C.A., 
Government Code § 551.041. 
 
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT  
CITY COUNCIL MEMBER(S) ABSENT 
Mayor Pat Rios  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mayor Pro-Tem J.D. Villa, Ward 2 
Council Member Rusty Day, Ward 1      
 
 
Council Member Bob Cunningham, Ward 3                 
Council Member Andrea Hattman, Ward 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STAFF MEMBERS PRESENT  
 
  
ELECTED OFFICIALS   
City Manager Kevin Carruth 
City Secretary Teresa Valdez  
 
 
             
Finance Director Katie Griffin 
Public Works Director Mike Donoho 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
1.   Call to Order. 
 
With a quorum of the Council Members present, the Special Session of the Rockport City Council 
was called to order by Mayor Rios at 1:37 p.m. on Tuesday, June 2, 2020 in the Training Room of 
the Rockport Service Center, 2751 State Highway 35 Bypass, Rockport, Texas. 
 
2. Hear and deliberate on request for grant funds from the General Fund Account from the  
     Rockport Volunteer Fire Department. 
 
There was not a representative from the Rockport Volunteer Fire Department at the meeting to 
present their request for $163,219 grant funds from the City of Rockport. 
 
3.   Hear and deliberate on a presentation of hotel occupancy fund revenues and expenditures. 
 
City Manager Kevin Carruth addressed the Council.  Mr. Carruth stated the COVID-19 pandemic 
caused the closure of all of the City’s hotel occupancy tax (HOT) producing properties for 
approximately two and one-half months this year; consequently, staff is projecting an estimated 15% 
shortfall in HOT revenue compared to what was budgeted, assuming there is not another shutdown 
order before the end of Fiscal Year 2019-2020.  Mr. Carruth said Rockport’s tourism industry was 
still recovering from the impact of Hurricane Harvey when the pandemic hit, and the Fiscal Year 
20
City of Rockport, Texas 
June 2, 2020 City Council Special Meeting Minutes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Page 2 of 4 Pages 
2019-2020 budget reflected this reality by including the use of $156,000 from HOT fund balance to 
meet the funding requests of local agencies.  Mr. Carruth explained in Fiscal Year 2018-2019, the 
City relied almost exclusively on fund balance to meet the needs of applicant agencies and as a result 
of this heavy reliance on fund balance for two consecutive years, the ending fund balance on 
September 30, 2020, is estimated to leave the fund 176 days below the Council’s stated policy of 365 
days of working fund balance.  Mr. Carruth added although revenue projections for Fiscal Year 
2020-2021 are still being refined, the current revenue estimate for next year is $663,000.  
Mr. Carruth stated the letters that were sent to the HOT fund applicants told them to expect funding 
not at the same rate as previous years and asked them to tender their requests.   
 
Discussion was held among Council, Mr. Carruth and Finance Director Katie Griffin. 
 
4. Hear and deliberate on requests for grant funds from the Hotel Occupancy Tax Fund  
     Account from the following entities: 
 
A. Aransas County Council on Aging – Bountiful Bowl Pottery Fair 
 
Mary Ellen Nies, Executive Director for Aransas County Council on Aging addressed the Council.  
Ms. Nies presented a request for $1,200 grant funds from the City of Rockport Hotel Occupancy Tax 
Fund. 
 
B. Friends of the Fulton Mansion – Fulton Mansion State Historic Site 
 
Pam Black, Friends of the Fulton Mansion Board President and Jessica Holt, Assistant Site Manager 
for the Fulton Mansion State Historic Site, addressed the Council. Ms. Paterson presented a request 
for $25,000 grant funds from the City of Rockport Hotel Occupancy Tax Fund. 
 
Discussion was held among Council and Ms. Paterson regarding the Fulton Mansion State Historic 
Site grant fund request. 
 
 
C. Rockport Center for the Arts 
i. 
Marketing/Events 
 
Luis Purón, Executive Director, and Elena Rodriguez, Creative and Managing Director, of the 
Rockport Center for the Arts, addressed the Council.  Mr. Purón & Ms. Rodriguez presented a 
request for $126,500 grant funds from the City of Rockport Hotel Occupancy Tax Fund Account.  
 
Discussion was held among Council, Mr. Purón and Ms. Rodriquez regarding the Rockport Center 
for the Arts grant fund request. 
 
ii. Film Festival 
 
Elena Rodriguez, Rockport Center for the Arts Creative and Managing Director, addressed the 
Council.  Ms. Rodriquez stated the Rockport Rotary Club is once again working with the Rockport 
Center for the Arts to host the Rockport Film Festival event.   
 
21
City of Rockport, Texas 
June 2, 2020 City Council Special Meeting Minutes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Page 3 of 4 Pages 
Ms. Rodriguez presented a request for $4,000 grant funds for the Rockport Film Festival from the 
City of Rockport Hotel Occupancy Tax Fund Account. 
 
 
D. Rockport Cultural Arts District 
 
Jennifer Day, Executive Director of the Rockport Cultural Arts District, addressed the Council. Ms. 
Miller presented a request for $48,000 grant funds from the City of Rockport Hotel Occupancy Tax 
Fund Account.   
 
Discussion was held among Council and Ms. Miller regarding the Rockport Cultural Arts District 
grant fund request. 
 
E. Rockport-Fulton Chamber of Commerce 
 i.  Marketing 
 
Blake McDavid, Chairman of the Board, Sandy Jumper, Director of Tourism and Events, Diane 
Probst, President & Chief Executive Officer and, Jatin Bhakta addressed the Council.  They 
presented the Rockport-Fulton Chamber of Commerce 2020-2021 Marketing Plan.  The Rockport-
Fulton Chamber of Commerce presented a request for $340,000.  
 
Discussion was held among Council, Ms. Probst, and Ms. Jumper, regarding the Rockport-Fulton 
Chamber of Commerce grant fund request. 
 
ii.  HummerBird Celebration 
 
Sandy Jumper, Rockport-Fulton Chamber of Commerce Director of Tourism and Events and Diane 
Probst, President & Chief Executive Officer addressed the Council.  Ms. Jumper & Ms. Probst 
presented a request for $1,500 grant funds from the City of Rockport Hotel Occupancy Tax Fund 
Account for the September 17-20, 2020 HummerBird Celebration. 
 
 
 
iii.  Seafair 
 
Sandy Jumper, Rockport-Fulton Chamber of Commerce Director of Tourism and Events addressed 
the Council.  Ms. Jumper presented a request for $1,500 grant funds from the City of Rockport Hotel 
Occupancy Tax Fund Account for the October 9-11, 2020 Seafair. 
 
 
F. Rockport Yacht Club – Nautical Flea Market 
 
Shannon Carney, Treasurer of the Rockport Yacht Club presented their request for $1,800 grant 
funds from the City of Rockport Hotel Occupancy Tax Fund Account for the Nautical Flea Market to 
be held May 2-4, 2021. 
 
 
 
 
22
City of Rockport, Texas 
June 2, 2020 City Council Special Meeting Minutes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Page 4 of 4 Pages 
G. Texas Maritime Museum 
 
Kathy Roberts-Douglass, Chief Executive Officer of the Texas Maritime Museum, addressed the 
Council.  Ms. Roberts-Douglass presented a request for $70,000 grant funds from the City of 
Rockport Hotel Occupancy Tax Fund Account. 
 
Discussion was held among Council and Ms. Roberts-Douglass regarding the Texas Maritime 
Museum grant fund request. 
 
 
H. University of Texas Marine Science Institute – Bay Education Center 
 
Sara Pelleteri, Bay Education Center Administrator addressed the Council.  Ms. Pelleteri presented a 
request for $13,000 grant funds from the City of Rockport Hotel Occupancy Tax Fund Account. 
 
Discussion was held among Council and Ms. Pelleteri regarding the University of Texas Marine 
Science Institute Bay Education Center grant fund request. 
 
5.  Adjournment 
 
At 3:31 p.m., Council Member Hattman moved to adjourn.  Motion was seconded by Council 
Member Saski and carried unanimously. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF ROCKPORT, TEXAS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patrick R. Rios, Mayor 
 
ATTEST: 
   
______________________________ 
Teresa Valdez, City Secretary 
23
 
Resolution Border Star FY2021- June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
 
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA 
Regular Meeting: Tuesday, June 9, 2020 
 
AGENDA ITEM:  7 
 
Deliberate and act on a Resolution of the City of Rockport, Texas, authorizing the Rockport 
Police Department to apply for and operate a Local Border Security Program (Border Star) 
administered by the Office of the Governor for Fiscal Year 2021; and authorizing the Mayor to act 
as the Executive Officer and authorized representative in all matters pertaining to the participation in 
this grant program. 
 
SUBMITTED BY:  Chief Gregory Stevens 
 
APPROVED FOR AGENDA:  PKC 
 
BACKGROUND: The objective of the Local Border Security Program (Border Star) is to 
disrupt, deter, interdict, and dominate criminal activity associated with the northbound and 
southbound movement of illicit traffic through the Texas border region in order to reduce 
border-related crime, reduce potential acts of terror, and increase the security and quality of 
life of Texans.  As detailed in the accompanying application, this is a reimbursement program 
that will primarily allow the Rockport Police Department to pay overtime to officers to increase 
visible patrol and engage in enhanced traffic enforcement.  The Department received and 
successfully implemented a similar grant for FY 2019 and FY 2020.  A requirement of the grant 
is a resolution from the City authorizing the operation of the Local Border Security Program FY 
2021. 
 
FISCAL ANALYSIS: Border Star is in Fund 18 with revenue is credited to account 40420 and 
overtime and fuel expenses charged to accounts 6181008 and 6187044 respectively.  No cash or in-
kind match is required. 
 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION: Staff recommends Council approve the Resolution authorizing 
the Rockport Police Department to apply for and operate a FY 2021 Local Border Security Program 
administered by the Office of the Governor, as presented. 
 
24
Resolution No. 2020 - __ 
 
Page 1 of 1 
 
 
 
 
 
RESOLUTION NO. 2020 - __ 
 
A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF ROCKPORT, TEXAS, AUTHORIZING THE 
ROCKPORT POLICE DEPARTMENT TO APPLY FOR AND OPERATE A LOCAL 
BORDER SECURITY PROGRAM(BORDER STAR) GRANT ADMINISTERED BY 
THE OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR, FOR FISCAL YEAR 2021; AND AUTHORIZING 
THE MAYOR TO ACT AS THE EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND AUTHORIZED 
REPRESENTATIVE IN ALL MATTERS PERTAINING TO THE PARTICIPATION IN 
THIS GRANT PROGRAM. 
 
WHEREAS, Operation Border Star was launched in 2007 to provide local and state agencies 
funds to pay officers overtime to beef up border patrol sand to coordinate 
intelligence gathering about crime on the border. The local and state agencies also 
coordinate and share information with federal agencies: and  
 
WHEREAS, the City of Rockport finds it is the best interest of our citizens that the City of 
Rockport participate in the Local Border Star Security Program joining together 
with local, state and federal partners, to support the men and women of the U. S. 
Border Patrol, and protect our community by securing our international borders; 
and 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Rockport agrees that in the event of loss or misuse of the Office of the 
Governor funds, the City of Rockport assures that the funds will be returned to the 
Office of the Governor in full. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY OF ROCKPORT, TEXAS: 
 
Section 1. That a Local Border Star Security Program application is hereby authorized to be 
filed for funding consideration; 
 
Section 2. That the Mayor is designated as the Chief Executive Officer and Authorized 
Representative in connection with this application and participation in the Local Border Security 
Program. The authorized official is given the power to apply for, accept, reject, alter or 
terminate the grant on behalf of the agency.  
 
APPROVED and ADOPTED the 9th day of June 2020.   
 
 
CITY OF ROCKPORT, TEXAS 
 
 
 
 
 
Patrick R. Rios,  Mayor 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
 
Teresa Valdez, City Secretary 
 
25
Print This Page
Agency Name: Rockport, City of 
Grant/App: 3136405 Start Date: 9/1/2020 End Date: 8/31/2021 
Project Title: Local Border Security Program 
Status: Pending OOG Review 
Eligibility Information
Your organization's Texas Payee/Taxpayer ID Number:
17460020005001
Application Eligibility Certify:
Created on:3/9/2020 1:17:46 PM By:Meredith Yarnall
Profile Information
Applicant Agency Name: Rockport, City of
Project Title: Local Border Security Program
Division or Unit to Administer the Project: Rockport Police Department
Address Line 1: 714 E Concho
Address Line 2: 
City/State/Zip: Rockport Texas 78382-2530
Start Date: 9/1/2020
End Date: 8/31/2021
Regional Council of Goverments(COG) within the Project's Impact Area: Coastal Bend Council of 
Governments
Headquarter County: Aransas
Counties within Project's Impact Area: Aransas
Grant Officials:
Authorized Official
Name: Patrick Rios
Email: mayor@cityofrockport.com
Address 1: 2751SH 35 BYP
Address 1: 
City: Rockport, Texas 78382
Phone: 361-729-2213 Other Phone: 361-205-2172
Fax: 361-790-5966
Title: The Honorable
Salutation: Mayor
Position: Mayor
Financial Official
Name: Katie Griffin
Email: finance@cityofrockport.com
Address 1: 2751 State Hwy 35 Bypass
Address 1: 
City: Rockport, Texas 78382
Phone: 361-729-2213 Other Phone: 940-206-3465
Fax: 
Title: Ms.
Salutation: Ms.
Position: Director of Finance
Project Director
Name: Meredith Yarnall
Email: nyarnall@cityofrockport.com
26
Address 1: 714 E Concho
Address 1: 
City: Rockport, Texas 78382
Phone: 361-790-1101 Other Phone: 
Fax: 361-729-3461
Title: Ms.
Salutation: Ms.
Position: Adminstrative Assistant
Grant Writer
Name: Meredith Yarnall
Email: nyarnall@cityofrockport.com
Address 1: 714 E Concho
Address 1: 
City: Rockport, Texas 78382
Phone: 361-790-1101 Other Phone: 
Fax: 361-729-3461
Title: Ms.
Salutation: Ms.
Position: Adminstrative Assistant
Grant Vendor Information
Organization Type: Unit of Local Government (City, Town, or Village)
Organization Option: applying to provide homeland security services
Applicant Agency's State Payee Identification Number (e.g., Federal Employer's Identification (FEI) 
Number or Vendor ID): 17460020005001
Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS): 048150783
Narrative Information
Introduction
27
The purpose of the program is to sustain interagency law enforcement operations and enhance local law 
enforcement patrols to facilitate directed actions to deter and interdict criminal activity. Program participants 
shall assist in the execution of coordinated border security operations in an effort to:
• Increase the effectiveness and impact of Steady State and Surge Operations.
• Reduce border-related criminal activity in Texas.
• Implement and increase the effectiveness of operational methods, measures, and techniques for 
outbound/southbound operations.
• Decrease the supply of drugs smuggled into and through Texas from Mexico.
• Disrupt and deter operations of gang and cartel criminal organizations.
• Decrease specifically targeted tactics (such as conveyance methods) for drugs in the Texas border region.
• Decrease use of specific areas for crime as targeted in directed action missions.
• Increase the effectiveness of air operations mission planning and prioritization.
• Increase the coordination and integration of air-ground team operations to include Texas Military Forces 
(TMF) aviation, United States Customs and Border Patrol (USCBP) Air and Marine, Texas Department of Public 
Safety (DPS) Aircraft Division, and United States Coast Guard (USCG) aviation support.
• Increase the effectiveness of directed action missions based upon intelligence and analysis to ensure they 
target the most serious threats and are conducted in high pay off areas.
• Increase the number and quality of analytical intelligence products developed at the Unified Command and 
state levels.
• Increase intelligence based operations at the Unified Command level through integration of TxMap, sector 
specific information, and intelligence analysis.
Funding Levels
The anticipated funding levels for these programs are as follows:
• Minimum Award - None
• Maximum Award – None
• The program does not require a grantee to provide matching funds.
For more information regarding grantee match, please click on the Budget tab, and then click on the Source 
of Match tab in eGrants.
Note: If you voluntarily include matching funds that exceed the minimum match requirement, you will be held 
to that amount throughout the grant period.
Program Requirements
28
Coordination with Regional Joint Operations Intelligence Center (JOIC)
Grantees must agree to perform the following activities:
• Participate in operational planning and coordination meetings, information/intelligence sharing meetings, and 
After Action Reviews (AARs) established by the Texas Department of Public Safety’s (DPS) Joint Operations 
and Intelligence Centers (JOIC).
• Participate weekly on the JOIC Unified Command conference calls or meetings as required by the JOIC.
• Report significant border-related events that occur during each 24-hour period.
• Conduct enhanced law enforcement patrolling activities.
• Recognize and react to information/intelligence to adjust times and locations of enhanced patrol activities.
• Identify significant border-related trends or areas of interest that may be developed into focus areas for 
future operations.
• Conduct surveillance, interdictions, investigations, and collect and disseminate information within its 
jurisdiction or cross-jurisdiction lines as required.
• Conduct Steady State operations and respond to calls for service.
• Integrate air, ground, marine, and remote operations.
Grantees must agree to submit BIAR reports to the JOIC:
The grantee shall report all border-related events to the JOIC using the BIAR. BIAR reporting shall include 
events that occur during Enhanced Operation activities AND events that occur during Steady State activities. 
Enhanced (Surge) Operations originate out of the use of LBSP funds when the local agency chooses to increase 
the hours of patrol or the number of investigative bodies. Steady State activities are defined as normal patrol 
or investigative duties that do not use grant funds, but directly impact the overall LBSP mission, such as 
organized crime arrests, terroristic activities, weapons trafficking arrests, kidnappings, human trafficking, 
human smuggling, home invasions with a border or organized crime nexus, illegal immigration, border-related 
murders, gang-related murders, vehicle thefts, or drug trafficking. 
The BIAR is the primary incident and information-reporting tool for the grantee in local border security 
operations. The grantee shall ensure all BIARs conform to the respective standards outlined by the JOIC and 
are submitted within 24 hours of the end of shift and/or the timeframes established by the JOIC.
Program Income
Applicant agrees to comply with all federal and state rules and regulations for program income and agrees to 
report all program income that is generated as a result of the project's activities. Applicant agrees to report 
program income through a formal grant adjustment and to secure PSO approval prior to use of the program 
income. Applicant agrees to use program income for allowable costs and agrees to expend program income 
immediately after PSO's approval of a grant adjustment and prior to requesting reimbursement of funds.
Deduction Method - Program income shall be deducted from total allowable costs to determine the net 
allowable costs. Program income shall be used for current costs unless PSO authorizes otherwise. 
Program income which the grantee did not anticipate at the time of the award shall be used to reduce 
the PSO award and grantee match rather than to increase the funds committed to the project.
Asset Seizures and Forfeitures - Program income from asset seizures and forfeitures is considered 
earned when the property has been adjudicated to the benefit of the plaintiff (e.g., law enforcement 
entity).
DUNS
Eligible applicants must have a DUNS (Data Universal Numbering System) number assigned to its agency.
System for Award Management
Eligible applicants must be registered in the federal System for Award Management (SAM) database and 
maintain an active registration throughout the grant application period.
Certifications
29
Criminal History Reporting
Entities receiving funds from PSO must be located in a county that has an average of 90% or above on both 
adult and juvenile dispositions entered into the computerized criminal history database maintained by the 
Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) as directed in the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure, Chapter 66. The 
disposition completeness percentage is defined as the percentage of arrest charges a county reports to DPS for 
which a disposition has been subsequently reported and entered into the computerized criminal history 
system.
Beginning January 1, 2020, counties applying for grant awards from the Office of the Governor must commit 
that the county will report at least 90 percent of convictions within seven business days to the Criminal Justice 
Information System at the Department of Public Safety. By January 1, 2021, such reporting must take place 
within five business days. Click here for additional information from DPS on this new reporting requirement.
Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR)
Eligible applicants operating a law enforcement agency must be current on reporting Part I violent crime data 
to the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) for inclusion in the annual Uniform Crime Report (UCR). To be 
considered eligible for funding, applicants must have submitted a full twelve months of accurate data to DPS 
for the most recent calendar year.
Conversion to National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS)
The Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) has established a goal set by the Texas Legislature for all local 
law enforcement agencies to implement and report crime statistics data by using the requirements of the 
National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS). Additionally, the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) 
will collect required crime statistics solely through the NIBRS starting January 1, 2021. Due to this federal 
deadline, grantees are advised that eligibility for future grant funding may be tied to compliance with NIBRS. 
Financial grant assistance for transitioning to NIBRS may be available for your jurisdiction from the Public 
Safety Office.
Compliance with State and Federal Laws, Programs and Procedures
Local units of government, including cities, counties and other general purpose political subdivisions, as 
appropriate, and institutions of higher education that operate a law enforcement agency, must comply with all 
aspects of the programs and procedures utilized by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”) to: (1) 
notify DHS of all information requested by DHS related to illegal aliens in Agency’s custody; and (2) detain 
such illegal aliens in accordance with requests by DHS. Additionally, counties and municipalities may NOT have 
in effect, purport to have in effect, or make themselves subject to or bound by, any law, rule, policy, or 
practice (written or unwritten) that would: (1) require or authorize the public disclosure of federal law 
enforcement information in order to conceal, harbor, or shield from detection fugitives from justice or aliens 
illegally in the United States; or (2) impede federal officers from exercising authority under 8 U.S.C. § 1226
(a), § 1226(c), § 1231(a), § 1357(a), § 1366(1), or § 1366(3). Lastly, eligible applicants must comply with all 
provisions, policies, and penalties found in Chapter 752, Subchapter C of the Texas Government Code.
Each local unit of government, and institution of higher education that operates a law enforcement agency, 
must download, complete and then upload into eGrants the CEO/Law Enforcement Certifications and 
Assurances Form certifying compliance with federal and state immigration enforcement requirements. This 
Form is required for each application submitted to OOG and is active until August 31, 2021 or the end of the 
grant period, whichever is later.
Overall Certification
Each applicant agency must certify to the specific requirements detailed above as well as to comply with all 
requirements within the PSO Funding Announcement, the Guide to Grants, the Grantee Conditions and 
Responsibilities, any authorizing or applicable state and federal statutes and regulations to be eligible for this 
program.
X I certify to all of the application content and requirements.
Project Summary : 
Briefly summarize the project, including proposed activities and intended impact.
Utilize sworn officers to increase visible patrol and conduct surveillance and interdiction along 15 miles of Texas 
Highway 35 and Texas Business Highway 35 in an effort to confuse, disrupt, arrest and prosecute offenders of 
illegal human trafficking, illegal narcotic smuggling and other border related crimes. Operate a marine unit for 
surveillance, documentation and interdiction of illegal smuggling operations in the adjacent waterways; working 
with Texas Game Wardens, United States Coast Guard, United States Customs, and Department of Public 
Safety marine units to ensure analytical intelligence and apprehension of suspected violators. 
30
Problem Statement : 
Provide a detailed account of the issues, threats or hazards that your project will target. For federal Homeland 
Security Grants, include specific references to the regional or state Threat and Hazard Identification and Risk 
Assessment (THIRA), as applicable.
Local concerns about increasing border-related crime including home burglaries, human and drug smuggling, 
and cross border violence from gangs and drug cartels. 
Existing Capability Levels : 
Describe the existing capability levels, including resources that are currently in place to support this project 
prior to the use of grant funds.
26 sworn peace officers and 16 marked, fully equipped police vehicles. One 22ft shallow draft patrol vessel 
equipped with radar and navigation that is capable of day and night operation in a littoral environment. 
Capability Gaps: 
Describe the capability gaps which will be addressed by the project. For federal Homeland Security Grants, 
include specific references to the regional or statewide State Preparedness Report (SPR).
Manpower is the capability that we currently lack. The grant will provide the department the funds to pay 
officers to work in an overtime capacity. This will allows officers working the grant to focus on interdiction 
activities on the highways and waterways. The equipment and accessories will be under 1.1 Prevent terrorist 
attacks and organized criminal activity in Texas. The purchase of the laptop equipment will allow officers to 
communicate effectively with one another, dispatch communications, NLETS, TLETS, and other investigative 
databases in order to gather and disseminate Intelligence Information more effectively. The purchase of the 
vehicles will allow additional patrol officers on the streets to delay, divert, intercept, halt, apprehend, or secure 
threats and/or hazards. 
Impact Statement : 
Describe the project goals/objectives and how this project will maintain capabilities or reduce capability gaps. 
The project will reduce the capability gap by providing the funds to put officers on the street and waterways 
tasked with performing interdiction and surveillance activities. These activities will focus on curtailing human 
trafficking, narcotic smuggling and to prevent criminal and terrorist organizations from exploiting the borders of 
our state. 
Homeland Security Priority Actions: 
Identify the Texas Homeland Security Priority Action most closely aligned with this project. Each Priority Action 
is linked with an Objective from the Texas Homeland Security Strategic Plan (HSSP). List the Priority Action by 
number and text (e.g. 1.2.3 Expand and enhance the network of human sources that can provide detailed and 
relevant information on known or suspected terrorist and criminal enterprises.)
1.3.1 In conjunction with federal agencies, conduct unified state and local law enforcement operations to deny 
the use of the Texas border region to terrorists and criminal organizations, particularly between the ports of 
entry. 
Target Group : 
Identify the target group and population expected to benefit from this project.
This project will provide an immediate benefit to the citizens of Aransas County. However, through this grant 
the Rockport Police Department, will be able to provide benefits to the citizens and visitors of the State of 
Texas. By targeting human trafficking and narcotics smuggling in our area, we are able to stem the tide of 
criminal activity before it reaches other areas throughout our state. 
Long-Term Approach: 
Describe how the applicant agency will maintain the capabilities supported by this project without additional 
federal or state funds. If sustainment is dependent upon federal or state grants, describe the ongoing need for 
future grants, as applicable.
Without funds to provide overtime for the officers, it will difficult for the department to maintain the capabilities 
to target human trafficking and narcotic smuggling. Officers while working regular duty will have other 
responsibilities that will prevent them from being able to focus on interdiction, and surveillance activities. 
Project Activities Information
Introduction
31
This section contains questions about your project. It is very important for applicants to review their funding 
announcement for guidance on how to fill out this section. Unless otherwise specified, answers should be about 
the EXPECTED activities to occur during the project period.
Selected Project Activities:
ACTIVITY
PERCENTAGE:
DESCRIPTION
Enhanced 
Patrol
100.00
Increase visible patrol and conduct surveillance in an effort to confuse, 
disrupt, arrest and prosecute offenders of illegal human trafficking, illegal 
narcotic smuggling, and other border related crimes. 
Measures Information
Objective Output Measures
OUTPUT MEASURE
TARGET 
LEVEL
Number of hours of overtime for all law 
enforcement support personnel (i.e. 
dispatchers or jailers) agency-wide.
0
Number of hours of overtime for grant-
funded law enforcement support 
personnel (i.e. dispatchers or jailers) 
supporting the border initiative.
0
Number of hours of overtime for peace 
officers agency-wide.
5000
Number of hours of overtime of grant-
funded officers supporting the border 
initiative.
181
Number of hours of regular time for all 
law enforcement support personnel (i.e. 
dispatchers or jailers) agency-wide.
0
Number of hours of regular time for 
grant-funded law enforcement support 
personnel (i.e. dispatchers or jailers) 
supporting the border initiative.
0
Number of hours of regular time for 
peace officers agency-wide.
0
Number of hours of regular time of grant-
funded peace officers supporting the 
border initiative.
0
Number of miles patrolled by grant-
funded officers.
2200
Number of reports submitted - BIARs to a 
Regional DPS-JOIC (for LBSP) or DARs to 
US Border Patrol (for OPSG).
5
Number of traffic stops conducted by all 
peace officers agency-wide.
5810
200
32
Number of traffic stops conducted by 
grant-funded officers supporting the 
border initiative.
Number of traffic stops yielding findings 
related to border security offenses, 
conducted by all peace officers agency-
wide.
25
Number of traffic stops yielding findings 
related to border security offenses, 
conducted by grant-funded officers.
5
Number of weapons seized by all peace 
officers agency-wide.
2
Number of weapons seized by grant-
funded officers supporting the border 
initiative.
0
Objective Outcome Measures
OUTCOME MEASURE
TARGET 
LEVEL
Number of arrests (felony) made by all 
peace officers agency-wide.
275
Number of arrests (felony) made by 
grant-funded officers supporting the 
border initiative.
2
Number of arrests (misdemeanor) made 
by all peace officers agency-wide.
785
Number of arrests (misdemeanor) made 
by grant-funded officers supporting the 
border initiative.
10
Number of forfeitures (cash and other 
assets) attributed to all peace officers 
agency-wide.
0
Number of forfeitures (cash and other 
assets) attributed to grant-funded 
officers supporting the border initiative.
0
Number of major (Tier 1 and Tier 2) 
gangs targeted in the border initiative.
0
Number of major cartels targeted in the 
border initiative.
0
Value of all forfeitures (cash and other 
assets) attributed to all peace officers 
agency-wide.
0
Value of all forfeitures (cash and other 
assets) attributed to grant-funded 
officers supporting the border initiative.
0
33
Custom Output Measures
CUSTOM OUTPUT MEASURE
TARGET LEVEL
Custom Outcome Measures
CUSTOM OUTCOME MEASURE
TARGET LEVEL
Resolution from Governing Body
Applications from nonprofit corporations, local units of governments, and other political subdivisions must 
include a resolution that contains the following:
1. Authorization by your governing body for the submission of the application to the Public Safety Office 
(PSO) that clearly identifies the name of the project for which funding is requested;
2. A commitment to provide all applicable matching funds;
3. A designation of the name and/or title of an authorized official who is given the authority to apply for, 
accept, reject, alter, or terminate a grant (Note: If a name is provided, you must update the PSO should 
the official change during the grant period.); and
4. A written assurance that, in the event of loss or misuse of grant funds, the governing body will return all 
funds to PSO.
Upon approval from your agency's governing body, upload the approved resolution to eGrants by clicking on 
the Upload Files tab and following the instructions on Uploading eGrants Files.
Contract Compliance
Will PSO grant funds be used to support any contracts for professional services?
Select the appropriate response:
_ Yes
X No
For applicant agencies that selected Yes above, describe how you will monitor the activities of the sub-
contractor(s) for compliance with the contract provisions (including equipment purchases), deliverables, and all 
applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and guidelines governing this project.
Enter a description for monitoring contract compliance:
Lobbying
34
For applicant agencies requesting grant funds in excess of $100,000, have any federally appropriated funds 
been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any 
agency, a member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a member of Congress 
in connection with the awarding of any federal contract, the making of any federal grant, the making of any 
federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, 
amendment, or modification of any federal contract, grant loan, or cooperative agreement?
Select the appropriate response:
_ Yes
X No
_ N/A
For applicant agencies that selected either No or N/A above, have any non-federal funds been paid or will be 
paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a member 
of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress in connection with this federal contract, loan, or cooperative 
agreement?
Select the appropriate response:
_ Yes
X No
_ N/A
Fiscal Year
Provide the begin and end date for the applicant agency's fiscal year (e.g., 09/01/20xx to 08/31/20xx).
Enter the Begin Date [mm/dd/yyyy]:
10/1/2020
Enter the End Date [mm/dd/yyyy]:
9/30/2021
Sources of Financial Support
Each applicant must provide the amount of grant funds expended during the most recently completed fiscal 
year for the following sources:
Enter the amount (in Whole Dollars $) of Federal Grant Funds expended:
1197328
Enter the amount (in Whole Dollars $) of State Grant Funds expended:
409127
Single Audit
Applicants who expend less than $750,000 in federal grant funding or less than $750,000 in state grant 
funding are exempt from the Single Audit Act and cannot charge audit costs to a PSO grant. However, PSO 
may require a limited scope audit as defined in 2 CFR Part 200, Subpart F - Audit Requirements.
Has the applicant agency expended federal grant funding of $750,000 or more, or state grant funding of 
$750,000 or more during the most recently completed fiscal year?
Select the appropriate response:
X Yes
_ No
Applicant agencies that selected Yes above, provide the date of your organization's last annual single audit, 
performed by an independent auditor in accordance with the State of Texas Single Audit Circular; or CFR Part 
200, Subpart F - Audit Requirements.
Enter the date of your last annual single audit:
9/30/2019
Debarment
35
Each applicant agency will certify that it and its principals (as defined in 2 CFR Part 180.995):
•
Are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, sentenced to a denial 
of Federal benefits by a State or Federal Court, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this transaction by 
any federal department or agency;
•
Have not within a three-year period preceding this application been convicted of or had a civil judgment 
rendered against them for commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting 
to obtain, or performing a public (federal, state, or local) transaction or contract under a public transaction; 
violation of federal or state antitrust statutes or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, 
falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, or receiving stolen property; or
•
Are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity (federal, 
state, or local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in the above bullet; and have not within a 
three-year period preceding this application had one or more public transactions (federal, state, or local) 
terminated for cause or default.
Select the appropriate response:
X I Certify
_ Unable to Certify
If you selected Unable to Certify above, please provide an explanation as to why the applicant agency cannot 
certify the statements.
Fiscal Capability Information
Section 1: Organizational Information
*** FOR PROFIT CORPORATIONS ONLY ***
Enter the following values in order to submit the application
Enter the Year in which the Corporation was Founded: 0
Enter the Date that the IRS Letter Granted 501(c)(3) Tax Exemption Status: 01/01/1900
Enter the Employer Identification Number Assigned by the IRS: 0
Enter the Charter Number assigned by the Texas Secretary of State: 0
Enter the Year in which the Corporation was Founded:
Enter the Date that the IRS Letter Granted 501(c)(3) Tax Exemption Status:
Enter the Employer Identification Number Assigned by the IRS:
Enter the Charter Number assigned by the Texas Secretary of State:
Section 2: Accounting System
The grantee organization must incorporate an accounting system that will track direct and indirect costs for the 
organization (general ledger) as well as direct and indirect costs by project (project ledger). The grantee must 
establish a time and effort system to track personnel costs by project. This should be reported on an hourly 
basis, or in increments of an hour.
Is there a list of your organization's accounts identified by a specific number (i.e., a general ledger of 
accounts)?
Select the appropriate response:
_ Yes
_ No
Does the accounting system include a project ledger to record expenditures for each Program by required 
budget cost categories?
Select the appropriate response:
_ Yes
_ No
Is there a timekeeping system that allows for grant personnel to identify activity and requires signatures by 
the employee and his or her supervisor?
Select the appropriate response:
36
_ Yes
_ No
If you answered 'No' to any question above in the Accounting System section, in the space provided below 
explain what action will be taken to ensure accountability.
Enter your explanation:
Section 3: Financial Capability
Grant agencies should prepare annual financial statements. At a minimum, current internal balance sheet and 
income statements are required. A balance sheet is a statement of financial position for a grant agency 
disclosing assets, liabilities, and retained earnings at a given point in time. An income statement is a summary 
of revenue and expenses for a grant agency during a fiscal year.
Has the grant agency undergone an independent audit?
Select the appropriate response:
_ Yes
_ No
Does the organization prepare financial statements at least annually?
Select the appropriate response:
_ Yes
_ No
According to the organization's most recent Audit or Balance Sheet, are the current total assets greater than 
the liabilities?
Select the appropriate response:
_ Yes
_ No
If you selected 'No' to any question above under the Financial Capability section, in the space provided below 
explain what action will be taken to ensure accountability.
Enter your explanation:
Section 4: Budgetary Controls
Grant agencies should establish a system to track expenditures against budget and / or funded amounts.
Are there budgetary controls in effect (e.g., comparison of budget with actual expenditures on a monthly 
basis) to include drawing down grant funds in excess of:
a) Total funds authorized on the Statement of Grant Award?
_ Yes
_ No
b) Total funds available for any budget category as stipulated on the Statement of Grant Award?
_ Yes
_ No
If you selected 'No' to any question above under the Budgetary Controls section, in the space provided below 
please explain what action will be taken to ensure accountability.
Enter your explanation:
Section 5: Internal Controls
Grant agencies must safeguard cash receipts, disbursements, and ensure a segregation of duties exist. For 
example, one person should not have authorization to sign checks and make deposits.
Are accounting entries supported by appropriate documentation (e.g., purchase orders, vouchers, receipts, 
invoices)?
Select the appropriate response:
37
_ Yes
_ No
Is there separation of responsibility in the receipt, payment, and recording of costs?
Select the appropriate response:
_ Yes
_ No
If you selected 'No' to any question above under the Internal Controls section, in the space provided below 
please explain what action will be taken to ensure accountability.
Enter your explanation:
Budget Details Information
Budget Information by Budget Line Item:
CATEGORY SUB 
CATEGORY
DESCRIPTION
OOG
CASH 
MATCH
IN-
KIND 
MATCH
GPI
TOTAL UNIT/%
Personnel
Overtime for 
All Peace 
Officers
Enhanced patrol-
overtime 
according to local 
OT policy- 
estimate 181.5 
hours at an 
average OT rate, 
including fringe 
benefits, of 
$48.447/hr.- up to 
a total of 
$8793.13
$8,793.13
$0.00
$0.00 $0.00 $8,793.13
100
Supplies and 
Direct 
Operating 
Expenses
Vehicle 
Operating 
Cost (e.g., 
fuel, 
lubricants, 
maintenance, 
storage)
Actual vehicle 
operating costs 
prorated for the 
hours officers 
work on grant 
paid overtime for 
an estimated 
value of $1200
$1,206.87
$0.00
$0.00 $0.00 $1,206.87
0
Source of Match Information
Detail Source of Match/GPI:
DESCRIPTION
MATCH TYPE
AMOUNT
Summary Source of Match/GPI:
38
Total Report
Cash Match
In Kind
GPI Federal Share
GPI State Share
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Budget Summary Information 
Budget Summary Information by Budget Category: 
CATEGORY
OOG
CASH MATCH
IN-KIND MATCH
GPI
TOTAL
Personnel
$8,793.13
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$8,793.13
Supplies and Direct Operating Expenses
$1,206.87
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$1,206.87
Budget Grand Total Information:
OOG
CASH MATCH
IN-KIND MATCH
GPI
TOTAL
$10,000.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$10,000.00
Condition Of Fundings Information
Condition of Funding / Project Requirement
Date 
Created
Date 
Met
Hold 
Funds
Hold 
Line 
Item 
Funds
Costs for fuel (vehicle or boat) are allowable only for the hours 
officers are working on grant-paid overtime. Vehicle and boat 
maintenance costs must be prorated to show the use of 
vehicles/boats for regular law enforcement duties and the use of 
vehicles/boats while officers are working grant-paid overtime patrols. 
Only actual vehicle/boat expenses supported by invoiced gas, oil, and 
maintenance expenses may be reimbursed under this grant. Please 
retain all receipts and be prepared to make available upon request. 
4/14/2020 
2:43:58 PM
No
No
Resolution: Applications from nonprofit corporations, local units of 
governments, and other political subdivisions must submit a 
resolution electronically using the 'Upload' function in the eGrants 
system. The resolution must contain the following: 
•
Authorization by your governing body for the submission of the 
application to OOG that clearly identifies the name of the project for 
which funding is requested; 
•
A commitment to provide all applicable matching funds; 
•
A designation of the name and/or title of an authorized official who 
is given the authority to apply for, accept, reject, alter, or terminate a 
grant (Note: If a name is provided, you must update OOG should the 
official change during the grant period.); and 
•
A written assurance that, in the event of loss or misuse of grant 
funds, the governing body will return all funds to OOG.
4/14/2020 
2:44:19 PM
Yes
No
39
You are logged in as User Name: nikki44y
40
 
Bd Appts -June 9, 2020, Council Mtg 
Page 1 of 2 
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA 
Regular Meeting:  Tuesday, June 9, 2020 
 
AGENDA ITEM:  8 
 
Deliberate and act to confirm Mayoral appointments to various City of Rockport boards, 
committees, and commissions. 
 
SUBMITTED BY: Mayor Patrick Rios 
 
APPROVED FOR AGENDA:  PKC 
 
BACKGROUND:  Each year after the May election, the City Council appoints members to the 
various boards, committees and commissions.  Appointments for all boards and committees 
include the following:  NOTE:  Red type depicts re-appointments.  Blue type depicts 
appointments. 
 
 
PARKS AND LEISURE SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD 
PLACE  
NO. 
 
MEMBER’S NAME 
EXPIRATION 
DATE 
 
WARD 
 
COMMENTS 
1 
David Rodriguez 
June 1, 2018 
2 
 
2 
VACANT 
June 1, 2021 
 
Hector Nava, Jr. resigned 
3 
Leo Villa 
June 1, 2020 
2 
Requesting re-apppointment. 
4 
Ray A. Garza 
June 1, 2021 
4 
 
5 
Jenny Vander Pluym 
June 1, 2021 
3 
 
6 
VACANT 
June 1, 2021 
 
Debra Corpora resigned. 
7 
VACANT 
June 1, 2021 
 
 
Council Liaison:   _______________ 
 
 
PLANNING & ZONING COMMMISSION 
PLACE  
NO. 
 
MEMBER’S NAME 
EXPIRATION 
DATE 
 
WARD 
 
COMMENTS 
1 
Ric Young 
June 1, 2022 
4 
 
2 
Warren Hassinger 
June 1, 2021 
3 
appointment to fill unexpired term of Dudley McDaniel (moved) 
3 
Kim Hesley 
June 1, 2021 
3 
 
4 
G. Maynard Green 
June 1, 2020 
1 
Requesting re-apppointment. 
5 
Ruth Davis 
June 1, 2020 
1 
 
6 
Diana Severino-Saxon 
June 1, 2020 
3 
Requesting re-apppointment. 
7 
W. Kent Howard 
June 1, 2021 
3 
 
Council Liaison:   _________________, as required 
 
 
 
 
41
 
Bd Appts -June 9, 2020, Council Mtg 
Page 2 of 2 
TREE AND LANDSCAPE COMMITTEE 
PLACE 
NO. 
 
MEMBER’S NAME 
EXPIRATION 
DATE 
 
WARD 
 
COMMENTS 
1 
Vicki Pitluk 
June 1, 2021 
4 
 
2 
Ron Helmke 
June 1, 2020 
4 
 
3 
Carroll G. Overturf 
June 1, 2021 
3 
 
4 
Rita Gilbert 
June 1, 2022 
4 
 
5 
Ginger Easton Smith 
June 1, 2020 
3 
 
6 
Diana Severino-Saxon 
June 1, 2022 
3 
P & Z Representative 
7 
VACANT 
June 1, 2021 
 
Parks Board Representative 
  Council Liaison:   
 
ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT and  
BUILDING & STANDARDS COMMISSION 
PLACE  
NO. 
 
MEMBER’S NAME 
EXPIRATION 
DATE 
 
WARD 
 
COMMENTS 
1 
Warren Hassinger 
June 1, 2021 
3 
 
2 
Ric Young 
June 1, 2021 
4 
 
3 
Carey Dietrich 
June 1, 2020 
3 
Requesting re-apppointment. 
4 
Leo Villa 
June 1, 2020 
2 
Requesting re-apppointment. 
5 
Jeanetta Davis 
June 1, 2020 
1 
Requesting re-apppointment. 
6 
Richard W. Smith 
June 1, 2020 
2 
Alternate  
7 
C.G. (Turf) Overturf 
June 1, 2021 
3 
Alternate 
Council Liaison:  
 
FISCAL ANALYSIS:  N/A 
 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:  Staff recommends that City Council confirm the Mayor’s 
appointments and re-appointments to various boards, commissions, and committees, as 
presented. 
42
 
Council Liaison Bd Appts – June 9, 2020, Council Mtg 
Page 1 of 2 
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA 
Regular Meeting:  Tuesday, June 9, 2020 
 
AGENDA ITEM:  9 
 
Deliberate and act to confirm Mayoral appointments of City Council liaisons to various boards, 
committees, and commissions. 
 
SUBMITTED BY: Mayor Patrick R. Rios 
 
APPROVED FOR AGENDA:  PKC 
 
BACKGROUND:  Council Liaisons serve to facilitate communication between Council and their 
committees.  Liaisons are not members of their committees and do not actively participate in committee 
deliberations other than to answer questions of fact.  Each year after the May election, the Mayor appoints 
City Council Members to act as liaisons to the various boards, committees and commissions.   
 
1. ARANSAS PATHWAYS 
Council Liaison:  Mayor Rios                         Alternate Liaison:  Council Member Cunningham 
 
2. COASTAL BEND BAYS AND ESTUARIES 
Council Liaison:  Council Member Cunningham 
    Alternate Liaison:  Mayor Pro-Tem Villa 
 
3. COASTAL BEND COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS 
Council Liaison:  Mayor Rios 
  Alternate Liaison:  Mayor Pro-Tem Villa 
 
4. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL 
Council Liaison:  Mayor Rios 
 
 
5. PARK AND LEISURE SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD 
Council Liaison:  Mayor Pro-Tem Villa   
 Alternate Liaison:  Council Member Cunningham 
 
6. PLANNING & ZONING COMMMISSION 
Council Liaison:   Mayor Pro-Tem Villa 
 
7. ROCKPORT CULTURAL ARTS DISTRICT 
Council Liaison:  Council Member Saski      Alternate Liaison:  Council Member Hattman 
 
8. ROCKPORT-FULTON CHAMBER OF COMMCERCE 
Council Liaison:  Council Member Hattman 
 
9. ROCKPORT HERITAGE DISTRICT ASSOCIATION 
Council Liaison:  Council Member Saski 
 
 
43
 
Council Liaison Bd Appts – June 9, 2020, Council Mtg 
Page 2 of 2 
10. 
TREE LANDSCAPE COMMITTEE 
Council Liaison:  Council Member Cunningham 
 
11. 
ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT 
Council Liaison: Council Member Saski   
 Alternate Liaison:  Council Member Cunningham 
 
12. 
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
Council Liaison:  Mayor Rios                    
 Alternate Liaison:  Council Member Cunningham 
 
13. 
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL 
Council Liaison:  Council Member Hattman      
 Alternate Liaison: Council Member Saski 
 
14. 
SWIMMING POOL ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
Council Liaison:  Mayor Pro-Tem Villa 
 
Alternate Liaison:  Council Member Hattman 
 
 
FISCAL ANALYSIS:  N/A 
 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION:  Staff recommends that City Council confirm the Mayor’s 
appointments of City Council liaisons to various boards, commissions, and committees, as presented. 
 
44
Bay Shore Engineering Agrmt – June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
Page 1 of 1 
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA  
Regular Meeting:  June 9, 2020 
 
AGENDA ITEM: 10 
 
Deliberate and act on approval of an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with Aransas County for 
Bay Shore Final Engineering and Shoreline Restoration project. 
 
SUBMITTED BY:  City Manager Kevin Carruth 
 
APPROVED FOR AGENDA:  PKC 
 
BACKGROUND:  This project is being funded out of the Texas Commission on Environmental 
Quality’s Restore Act Bucket 1 program.  The project includes rehabilitation of an existing failed 
groin within Reach 1 of the Key Allegro Peninsula.  Rehabilitation of the groin will require 
demolition of the existing damaged groin and replacement with a rock groin. The existing groin 
extends perpendicular from the shoreline approximately 80 ft.  The proposed rock groin will extend 
100 ft along the existing orientation, and will include a 40 ft section extending perpendicular, to 
the southeast, at the seaward end. This extension will better protect the adjacent shoreline and 
roadway from the most frequent erosive wave conditions. 
 
The accompanying PowerPoint presentation details the master plan of rehabilitation and repair 
work on Key Allegro, including Reach 1. 
 
FISCAL ANALYSIS:  Funding will come from Aransas County’s Restore Act Bucket 1 
allocation.  There is no match required of the City. 
 
RECOMMENDATION:  Staff recommends Council approve the Interlocal Cooperation 
Agreement with Aransas County for Bay Shore Final Engineering and Shoreline Restoration 
project, as presented. 
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
Bayshore Drive Project Overview
Mott MacDonald
May 12, 2020
Bayshore Drive Erosion Mitigation and 
Shoreline Stabilization
Project Overview
Aransas County
93
LITTLE BAY
KEY 
ALLEGRO
ARANSAS
BAY
94
Bayshore Drive Project Overview
Mott MacDonald
May 12, 2020
Proposed Work by Reach
1: Groin Rehabilitation
4: Bulkhead Repair 
5: Scour Protection & Groin Repair
6: Revetment Repair 
1
4
5
6
95
Bayshore Drive Project Overview
Mott MacDonald
May 12, 2020
Scope of Work 
 
Task 1: Project Kickoff and Understanding
 
Task 2: Existing Data Collection and Preliminary Design
 
Task 3: TCEQ Coordination
 
Task 4: Final Design
 
Task 5: Bidding Phase Services
 
Task 6: Engineering Services During Construction
96
Bayshore Drive Project Overview
Mott MacDonald
May 12, 2020
1
4
5
6
Reach 1
Groin Rehabilitation  
97
Bayshore Drive Project Overview
Mott MacDonald
May 12, 2020
Reach 1
Groin Rehabilitation  
 
Conceptual Work: Install rubble mound 
groin at location of existing concrete panel 
groin. Existing groin to be demolished.
 
Permit Status: Active Permit 
o
Individual Permit: SWG-2019-00066
o
Permit Holder: City of Rockport 
o
Expires: 12/31/2024
 
Required Actions: None
98
Bayshore Drive Project Overview
Mott MacDonald
May 12, 2020
1
4
5
6
Reach 4
Bulkhead Repair 
99
Bayshore Drive Project Overview
Mott MacDonald
May 12, 2020
Reach 4
Bulkhead Repair 
 
Conceptual Work: Approximately 320-ft 
of concrete panel bulkhead to be 
replaced with new bulkhead and existing 
concrete to be broken up and used as 
scour protection with added armor stone.
 
Permit Status: USACE initially verified 
work is authorized under NWP 13 (Bank 
Stabilization), but verification has
expired.
 
County has recently requested re-
verification that this work can be 
conducted under NWP 13.
 
Required Actions: Verification is 
pending.
100
Bayshore Drive Project Overview
Mott MacDonald
May 12, 2020
1
4
5
6
Reach 5
Scour Protection & Groin Repair
101
Bayshore Drive Project Overview
Mott MacDonald
May 12, 2020
Reach 5
Scour Protection & Groin Repair
 
Conceptual Work: Install scour 
protection along approximately 170-ft of 
bulkhead (2 areas) and repair or replace 
five (5) concrete groins.
 
Permit Status: No existing permit
Required Actions: As a part of the 
upcoming project, the County will apply 
for an NWP 3 (Maintenance) for the 
groin work and NWP 13 (Bank 
Stabilization) for the scour protection 
work.
~80-ft
~90-ft
102
Bayshore Drive Project Overview
Mott MacDonald
May 12, 2020
1
4
5
6
Reach 6
Revetment Repair 
103
Bayshore Drive Project Overview
Mott MacDonald
May 12, 2020
Reach 6
Revetment Repair 
 
Conceptual Work: Make repairs to 
existing rock revetment in 4 locations 
totaling approximately 330-ft along the 
shoreline.
 
Permit Status: No existing permit
 
Required Actions: As a part of the 
upcoming project, the County will apply 
for NWP 3 (Maintenance).
~90-ft
~60-ft
~70-ft
~110-ft
104
Bayshore Drive Project Overview
Mott MacDonald
May 12, 2020
Past Work 
Completed in 2018
 
Emergency scour protection and 
revetment repair work was 
completed in 2018 under an 
NWP 13 (Bank Stabilization) 
and NWP 3 (Maintenance), 
respectively.
105
 
Bay Shore Assignment Agrmt – June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
Page 1 of 1 
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA  
Regular Meeting:  June 9, 2020 
 
AGENDA ITEM: 11 
 
Deliberate and act on approval of Assignment Agreement with Aransas County for the Bay Shore 
Drive Final Engineering and Shoreline Restoration project. 
 
SUBMITTED BY:  City Manager Kevin Carruth 
 
APPROVED FOR AGENDA:  PKC 
 
BACKGROUND:  The Bay Shore Drive Final Engineering and Shoreline Restoration project 
(see briefing materials for agenda item 10) utilizes Texas Commission on Environmental Quality 
(TCEQ) Restore Act Bucket 1 funds allocated to Aransas County.  As a condition of using part of 
their allocation inside the city limits, Aransas County wants the City to assume any post-
construction obligations of the grant. 
 
Please see the accompanying Assignment Agreement for additional detail. 
 
FISCAL ANALYSIS:  There would be no more risk to the City than if the City had been awarded 
the TCEQ funds directly. 
 
RECOMMENDATION:  Staff recommends Council approve the Assignment Agreement with 
Aransas County for the Bay Shore Drive Final Engineering and Shoreline Restoration project, as 
presented. 
106
107
108
109
 
Ordinance Moratorium Sweepstakes Cafes – June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
Page 1 of 1 
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA  
Regular Meeting:  June 9, 2020 
 
AGENDA ITEM:  12 
 
Deliberate and act on first reading of an Ordinance of the City of Rockport, Texas, declaring a 
six month Moratorium on the acceptance of applications for the issuance of permits for the use 
of a location as an internet sweepstakes cafes or similar gaming machine establishments in the 
City of Rockport; directing City staff to study and make a recommendation to City Council 
regarding appropriate regulations for internet sweepstakes cafes or similar gaming machine 
establishments; providing for a method of repeal of this Moratorium; providing for severability; 
providing for a repealer clause and an effective date. 
 
SUBMITTED BY:  City Manager Kevin Carruth 
 
APPROVED FOR AGENDA:  PKC 
 
BACKGROUND:  Staff has begun receiving inquiries from persons interested in opening game 
rooms inside the city limits.  As noted in the accompanying memo from the City Attorney, there 
is no specific case law provision prohibiting sweepstakes Internet cafes or other games rooms and 
he therefore believes the City currently cannot prohibit the opening of such businesses.  If Council 
wishes to investigate the possibility of establishing an ordinance prohibiting game rooms or 
regulating them in some other manner, it would be prudent to enact a temporary moratorium to 
allow time to develop the research and draft appropriate ordinances. 
 
FISCAL ANALYSIS:  N/A 
 
RECOMMENDATION:  Staff recommends Council approve the first reading of an Ordinance 
of the City of Rockport, Texas, declaring a six month Moratorium on the acceptance of 
applications for the issuance of permits for the use of a location as an internet sweepstakes cafes 
or similar gaming machine establishments in the City of Rockport; directing City staff to study 
and make a recommendation to City Council regarding appropriate regulations for internet 
sweepstakes cafes or similar gaming machine establishments; providing for a method of repeal 
of this Moratorium; providing for severability; providing for a repealer clause and an effective 
date, as presented. 
110
111
112
Ordinance No. ___  
 Page 1 of 3 
Ordinance No. _________ 
A ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ROCKPORT, TEXAS,  DECLARING A SIX 
MONTH MORATORIUM ON THE ACCEPTANCE OF APPLICATIONS FOR THE 
ISSUANCE OF PERMITS FOR THE USE OF A LOCATION AS AN INTERNET 
SWEEPSTAKES CAFE OR SIMILAR GAMING MACHINE ESTABLISHMENTS IN 
THE CITY OF ROCKPORT; DIRECTING CITY STAFF TO STUDY AND MAKE A 
RECOMMENDATION 
TO 
CITY 
COUNCIL 
REGARDING 
APPROPRIATE 
REGULATIONS FOR INTERNET SWEEPSTAKES CAFES OR SIMILAR GAMING 
MACHINE ESTABLISHMENTS; PROVIDING FOR A METHOD OF REPEAL OF 
THIS MORATORIUM; PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY; PROVIDING FOR A 
REPEALER CLAUSE AND  AN EFFECTIVE DATE.  
WHEREAS, the City of Rockport is a home rule municipality incorporated under the 
authority of Article XI, Section 5 of the Texas Constitution; and 
WHEREAS, the City Council has directed staff to investigate and review state law 
concerning the regulation of Internet sweepstakes cafes and similar gaming establishments and to 
make recommendations to the City Council on regulations regarding the use and location of 
these establishments in the City; and 
WHEREAS, the City Council desires to maintain the health, safety, and general welfare 
of its inhabitants within the City until such time as the City Council has had a reasonable 
opportunity to review the recommended regulations and to take appropriate action as may be 
required to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and 
WHEREAS, a six-month moratorium placed on the issuance of permits for an Internet 
sweepstakes café or similar gaming machine establishments identified herein is a minimally 
intrusive regulation until such review can be completed; 
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF 
ROCKPORT, TEXAS: 
Section 1.  That the recitals contain in the preamble hereto are hereby found to be true and such 
recitals are hereby made a part of this Ordinance for all purposes and are adopted as a part of the 
judgment and findings of the Council. 
Section 2.  Effective immediately no application shall be accepted and no permit, including 
building permit, certificate of occupancy, or any other license or permit required by the City, 
shall be issued for the use of a location as an Internet sweepstakes café or similar gaming 
machine establishment within the City. 
113
Ordinance No. ___   
 
 Page 2 of 3 
 
Section 3.  The purpose of this moratorium is to maintain the health, safety, and general welfare 
of its inhabitants until such time as proper regulations can be adopted regarding Internet 
sweepstakes cafes or similar gaming machine establishments. 
Section 4.  The following definitions apply to this ordinance: 
 
a) The term gaming machine establishment as used in this ordinance means a place of 
business or place of public accommodation that is substantially used, but not necessarily 
primarily used, for the purpose of operating Internet sweepstakes machines or similar gaming 
machines. 
b) The term sweepstakes as used in this ordinance means a game, presented electronically 
or through a gaming machine, or other promotion through which a person, with or without 
consideration, may enter to win or become eligible to receive a prize, when the determination of 
the receipt of or eligibility for such prize is based, in whole or in part, on chance, even if drawn 
from a predetermined, finite pool of opportunities to win. 
 
c) The term permit as used in this ordinance means a license, certificate, approval, 
registration, consent, or other form of authorization required by law, rule, regulation or ordinance 
that must be obtained by a person in order to perform an action or development or initiate a 
project for which the permit is sought. 
Section 5.  The city staff of the City of Rockport are hereby directed to study and determine 
effective regulations concerning the location of Internet sweepstakes cafes or similar gaming 
machine establishments within the City, and to make recommendations to the City Council as 
expeditiously as possible regarding any such zoning or business regulations. 
Section 6.  This moratorium shall remain in effect until such time as the City Council has had a 
reasonable opportunity to consider and act upon appropriate regulations. This moratorium shall 
expire upon the first of one of the following events to occur: 1) six months from the date of 
adoption; 2) upon final adoption of an ordinance regulating Internet sweepstakes cafes or similar 
gaming machines establishments or; 3) upon a determination that such regulations are not 
appropriate.  This moratorium may be extended by City Council action for an additional time 
period. 
Section 7.  It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Council that the phrases, clauses, 
sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this ordinance be severable, and, if any phrase, clause, 
sentence, paragraph, or section of this ordinance shall be declared invalid by judgment or decree 
of any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining 
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, or sections of this ordinance and the remainder of this 
ordinance shall be enforced as written. 
114
Ordinance No. ___   
 
 Page 3 of 3 
 
Section 8.  The repeal or amendment of any ordinance or part of ordinances effectuated by the 
enactment of this ordinance shall not be construed as abandoning any action now pending under 
or by virtue of such ordinance or as discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty 
accruing or to accrue or as affecting any rights of the City of Rockport under any section or 
provisions of any ordinances in effect at the time of passage of this ordinance. 
Section 9.  The provisions of this ordinance shall be cumulative of all ordinances not repealed by 
this ordinance and ordinances governing or regulating the same subject matter as that covered 
herein.  
Section 10.  That it is officially found, determined and declared that the meeting at which this 
Ordinance is adopted was open to the public and public notice of the time, place, and subject 
matter of the public business to be considered at such meeting, including this ordinance, was 
given, all as required by Chapter 551, as amended, Texas Government Code. 
Section 11.  This ordinance shall be effective upon passage and approval as authorized in the 
City Charter and any other publications required by law.  
PASSED and APPROVED on first reading by the City Council of the City of Rockport, Texas, 
on the 9th day of June 2020. 
 
APPROVED and ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Rockport, Texas, on the 
______ day of _____________ 2020. 
 
 
 
CITY OF ROCKPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patrick R. Rios, Mayor 
  
 
 
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________________ 
 
 
 
Teresa Valdez, City Secretary 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
Denton Navarro Rocha Bernal & Zech, P.C. 
115
 
Aransas County Alliance LGC Consulting Services Agrmt. - June 9, 2020 Council Meeting    
 
 
 
     Page 1 of 1 
 
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA 
Regular Meeting: Tuesday, June 9, 2020 
 
 
 
AGENDA ITEM:  13 
 
Deliberate and act on approval of a Consulting Services Agreement with the Aransas County 
Alliance Local Government Corporation for the purpose of promoting economic development of the 
Aransas County area. 
 
SUBMITTED BY:  Mayor Patrick R. Rios 
 
APPROVED FOR AGENDA:  PKC 
 
 
BACKGROUND:  At the most recent Aransas County Alliance Local Government 
Corporation (LGC) meeting, the Board approved the services agreement for economic 
development services.  Per Section IV. Section 4.1 of the adopted Interlocal Agreement for 
Formation of the Aransas County Alliance Local Government Corporation: “The Parties may 
approve a Contract with the Alliance for the delivery of services by separate action of each Party.” 
The LGC is asking that each entity to approve the agreement.   
 
 
FISCAL ANALYSIS:  The City has previously committed to funding $12,000 for this fiscal year, 
as has Aransas County.  The Town of Fulton and the Aransas County Navigation District are 
contributing $2,500 each. 
 
 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION: Staff recommends Council approve the Consulting Services 
Agreement with the Aransas County Alliance Local Government Corporation for the purpose of 
promoting economic development of the Aransas County area, as presented. 
 
116
Aransas County Alliance LGC Consulting Agreement                                                   Page 1 of 6 
CONSULTING SERVICES AGREEMENT 
THE STATE OF TEXAS 
§ 
 
§ 
KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS 
COUNTY OF ARANSAS 
§ 
 
This Consulting Services Agreement ("Agreement") is executed by and between the 
Aransas County Alliance Local Government Corporation (the “LGC”), a Texas local government 
corporation organized under Texas Transportation Code Chapter 431, Subchapter D, as amended, 
and  City of Rockport, a Texas local government and sponsoring entity of the LGC (the “Sponsor”), 
for the purpose of promoting economic development of the Aransas County area.  
 
Whereas, the Sponsor and LGC recognize the value of the existing job base in Aransas 
County, the need to grow the job base, and the need to continue to expand the tax base in order to 
sustain and improve the general services and quality of place for the benefit of its residents and 
businesses alike;  
 
 
Whereas, the Sponsor and LGC recognize the value of economic development services in 
order to sustain and improve the County’s job base and tax base for the benefit of its residents and 
businesses alike;  
 
 
Whereas, the LGC was recently formed pursuant to a Texas Interlocal Cooperation 
Agreement which received final approval on December 9, 2019, (the “Interlocal Agreement”) to 
promote economic development and the Interlocal Agreement provided that the sponsoring entities 
of the LGC separately would approve contracts with the LGC to further define their partnership to 
promote economic development in Aransas County;  
 
 
 
NOW THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual covenants set forth herein, 
the parties hereto agree as follows: 
 
Section I: Services 
 
1. Description of Services.  LGC agrees to provide professional services to the Sponsor in 
the area of economic development directly and through a service provider as a contractor.  
LGC will organize, coordinate, and lead the expansion of Aransas County area’s economic 
base through actions and programs that encourage and cause retention, expansion, and 
recruitment of businesses targeted by the Sponsors.   
The professional services to be performed pursuant to this Agreement shall include the 
following: 
(a) Work diligently to achieve economic development goals established by the Sponsors 
from time to time, through their Strategic Plans and Economic Development Plan.  
117
Aransas County Alliance LGC Consulting Agreement                                                   Page 2 of 6 
(b) Consult and collaborate with the Sponsors on the development and amendment of the 
Economic Development Plan as it relates to economic development strategies, goals, and 
objectives, including the following initial goals: 
 
(1) Grow sales tax revenue within the County; 
 
(2) Grow the net number of jobs created within the County; 
 
(3) Grow per capita personal income within the County; 
 
(4)  Increase taxable real property and personal property within the County. 
(c) Create and implement programs and strategies designed to promote the prosperity of; 
retention of; and expansion of existing industries and business enterprises.  
(d). Identify potential partners, fundraise, manage, and finance projects that promote and 
encourage employment, workforce development, business recruitment, business retention 
and economic development. 
(e) Assist the community to speak with one voice and act as a “one stop shop” for 
information relative to economic development. 
(f) Implement programs and strategies designed to promote quality housing, quality of 
place, and quality of life. 
(g) Recruit and promote the Aransas County area to prospects for new target industries and 
business enterprises (as defined by policy of the Sponsoring Entities), particularly those 
which would substantially increase employment and wages. 
(h) Negotiate, subject to the approval of the governing bodies of each of the applicable 
Sponsors or other applicable jurisdictions, attractive, sound, and economically viable 
incentives (as defined by policy by the Sponsors) designed to foster the retention and 
expansion of existing industries and business enterprises as well as the inducement of new 
ones. 
(i) Advise and update the Sponsor of LGC’s status and progress on a quarterly basis as 
provided for in Section III below. 
(j) Undertake, from time to time, contingent upon both funding and resources, and at the 
direction of LGC’s board of directors: 
(1) Development of information and conducting research on area and regional 
economics, finance, education and training, housing, planning, development, and 
other similar areas of public concern which are deemed necessary to further its 
efforts; and 
(2) Assistance in the dissemination of pertinent local information by using a broad 
range of delivery vehicles as deemed prudent and effective; and 
118
Aransas County Alliance LGC Consulting Agreement                                                   Page 3 of 6 
(3) Development and operation of a website. 
(k) Conduct any and all other lawful activities which aid, assist; and encourage the 
economic prosperity and development of the County. 
(l) Prepare a comprehensive economic development strategy and present findings to the 
Sponsoring Entities for consideration for the purpose of updating the Economic 
Development Plan and developing goals, performance metrics, and policies. 
(m) Provide a current copy of all membership lists and bylaws, as requested by Sponsoring 
Entity representatives. 
(n) Provide technical assistance as needed to further economic development goals. 
(o) In year one of operation, diligently work on, but not limited to, the following projects: 
(1)  Work with the Texas General Land Office, if available, and or other partner 
resources to develop an asset inventory and associated recommendations for 
improvement of the community’s assets and resources. 
 
(2)  Work with the Texas General Land office, if available, and or other partner 
resources, the public, and any subcommittees to develop a recommendation on 
targeted businesses. 
 
(3) Explore development of a Workforce Development Center and pursue 
resources for implementation. 
Section II. Records, Reports, and Funding 
1.  Records.  LGC agrees to record the revenues received from each Sponsor for economic 
development services as a portion of its general revenues on its books of account.  LGC agrees 
to record all of its revenues and expenditures in financial statements prepared in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, which financial statements shall be made 
available to each Sponsor’s designee upon request. 
2.  Performance Reports.  On a quarterly basis, LGC shall furnish each of the Sponsors a 
performance report of its economic development services performed pursuant to this 
Agreement which shall reflect overall activity, meetings, contacts and other activities 
conducted by LGC, such reports are to include such data as may be reasonably required by the 
Sponsors.  Any communications or contacts which are of a confidential nature shall be limited 
to a general description only. LGC will provide an annual report to the Sponsors on its 
performance measures, activities, and expenditures related to this Agreement. 
3.  Financial Reports.  On a quarterly basis, LGC shall furnish each of the Sponsors financial 
statements reflecting funds received and expenditures made.  Within 120 days of the end of 
each fiscal year, LGC shall furnish each of the Sponsors an audited, annual financial statement. 
119
Aransas County Alliance LGC Consulting Agreement                                                   Page 4 of 6 
4.  Compensation.  The Sponsor agrees that for the economic development services performed 
by LGC, it shall pay to LGC the sum of $12,000.00 for the initial year covered by this 
Agreement and thereafter as prescribed in Section 5.2 of the Interlocal Agreement. Sponsor 
shall transfer these funds into the operations account of the LGC within 30 days after such 
account is open and available to receive deposits.  Compensation in future years shall be subject 
to annual appropriations by the governing body of Sponsor. 
5.  Allowed Uses of Funding. 
(a) Sponsor’s funding may be used to cover expenses that LGC incurs in its normal 
business operations, including, but not limited to, marketing costs, office supplies, travel, 
payroll, insurance payments, subcontractor, consultant and independent contractor 
payments, rental payments, and general office expenses. Sponsor’s funding may also be 
used to cover capital expenses which LGC incurs to acquire or upgrade capital assets, such 
as real estate, computers, office furniture, software and job training required or suitable 
for the promotion of development and expansion of business enterprises within Aransas 
County. 
(b) Funding received by LGC under this Agreement may not be used to provide monetary 
grants. 
(c) LGC shall never expend funds received under this Agreement for any purpose or 
activity not directly or indirectly related to the promotion of economic development on 
behalf of the Sponsors. 
Section III. General Provisions 
1.  Agreement. This Agreement is subject to all provisions contained in the Interlocal 
Agreement of the Sponsoring Entities, LGC bylaws, and LGC Articles of Incorporation. 
2.  Term.  The term of this Agreement shall commence on the date of approval by the Sponsor 
below, and it shall continue until December 31, 2020, subject to earlier termination by either 
party, and subject to renewal automatically on an annual basis thereafter. 
3.  Equal Opportunity Employer.  LGC agrees to abide by the equal opportunity laws and 
regulations, it and its contractors shall: 
(a) treat all applicants and employees without discrimination as to race, color, religion, sex, 
national origin or disability; and 
(b) identify itself as an "equal opportunity employer" in all help-wanted advertising or 
requests. 
4.  Notices.  All notices, requests or other communications related to this Agreement shall be 
made in wilting and may be given by: 
(a) depositing same in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, certified, return receipt 
requested, addressed as set forth in this paragraph; or 
120
Aransas County Alliance LGC Consulting Agreement                                                   Page 5 of 6 
(b) delivering the same to the party to be notified. Notice given in accordance with (a) 
hereof shall be effective upon deposit in the United States mail. The notice addresses of 
the pasties shall, until changed as provided herein, be as follows: 
Sponsor: 
City of Rockport 
 
 
Attn:  Kevin Carruth, City Manager 
 
 
2751 State Highway 35 Bypass 
 
 
Rockport, Texas  78382 
 
 
LGC: Aransas County Alliance Local Government Corporation 
Attn: Chairman 
2840 Highway 35 
Rockport, Texas 78382 
 
5.  Severability.  If for any reason any section, paragraph, subdivision, clause., phrase, word 
or provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unconstitutional by final judgment of a 
court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not affect any other section, paragraph, subdivision, 
clause, phrase, word or provision of this Agreement, for it is the definite intent of the parties 
that every section, paragraph, subdivision, clause, phrase, word or provision hereof be given 
full force and effect for its purpose. 
6. Lawful Service.  The parties mutually agree that the services provided under this Agreement 
are lawfully authorized services which the Sponsor is purchasing from LGC. 
7.  Modifications and Counterparts.  No amendments, modifications or other changes to this 
Agreement shall be valid or effective absent the written agreement of the parties. This 
Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an 
original and all of which shall constitute but one and the same instrument. 
8. Dissolution.  If LGC dissolves and discontinues business during the term of this Agreement, 
Sponsor shall be entitled to the refund of its proportionate share of any remaining funds in the 
percentages of financial support established by the Interlocal Agreement.  
9. Mutual Cooperation.  Sponsor and LGC agree to cooperate fully with one another and to 
coordinate their efforts in order to promote economic development within Aransas County. 
The Parties agree to keep each other fully informed of their plans, operations, and activities 
and whenever possible, to coordinate their efforts to promote and otherwise undertake 
economic development in the County. 
10. Ability to Contract with Others.  Nothing in this Agreement shall in any way limit either 
party from contracting with other persons or entities for economic development services within 
Aransas County.  
11. Relationship of Parties.  No Party to this Agreement shall have the right, power, or 
authority to act as a legal representative of another Party, and no Party shall have any power 
to obligate or bind another Party, or to make any representation, express or implied, on behalf 
of or in the name of the other in any manner or for any purpose whatsoever. 
121
Aransas County Alliance LGC Consulting Agreement                                                   Page 6 of 6 
 
EXECUTED on the dates indicated below but effective as of the _____ day ________ 2020. 
ARANSAS COUNTY ALLIANCE LOCAL GOVERNMENT CORPORATION 
 
By: 
________________________ 
 
 
 
Date:  __________________ 
 
Chairman of the Board 
 
CITY OF ROCKPORT, TEXAS 
 
By: 
________________________ 
 
 
 
Date:  __________________ 
 
Patrick R. Rios, Mayor 
ATTEST: 
 
By: 
________________________ 
 
Teresa Valdez, City Secretary 
 
122
ORIGINAL 
TEXAS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN ARANSAS 
COUNTY, THE CITY OF ROCKPORT, THE TOWN OF FULTON, AND THE 
ARANSAS COUNTY NAVIGATION DISTRICT 
FOR FORMATION OF THE ARANSAS COUNTY ALLIANCE LOCAL 
GOVERNMENT CORPORATION. 
This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (the "Agreement") is entered into among the Aransas 
County Navigation District, a navigation district operating under Section 59, Article XVI, Texas 
Constitution (hereinafter "District") acting by and through its Navigation and Canal Commission; 
Aransas County, a Texas County (hereinafter "County") acting by and through its Commissioners 
Court; the Town of Fulton, a Texas General Law municipal corporation (hereinafter "Fulton") 
acting by and through its Board of Aldermen; and the City of Rockport, a Texas municipal 
corporation (hereinafter "Rockport") acting by and through its City Council, pursuant to authority 
granted under the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Chapter 791 , Texas Government Code, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, to be effective as of 
the date on which the Agreement has been 
approved by the governing bodies and the last Party signs this Agreement (the "Effective Date"). 
District, County, Fulton and Rockport are collectively referred to herein as the "Parties" and are 
each a "Party". 
WITNESS 
ETH: 
WHEREAS, Chapter 791 of the Texas Government Code, as amended, titled Interlocal 
Cooperation Contracts, authorizes contracts between political subdivisions for the performance of 
governmental functions and services; 
WHEREAS, County, Rockport, Fulton and District are each a politician subdivision of 
the State 
of 
Texas, with the authority to enter into this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS, in the aftermath of the devastation caused by Hurricane Harvey reinvestment and 
redevelopment in the Rockport-Fulton, Aransas County area is of mutual interest of the Parties; 
and the Parties wish to enter into this Agreement with the objective to encourage, stimulate, and 
promote economic development, expansion, and diversification within the Rockport-Fulton-
Aransas County, Texas area, and to lessen the burdens of 
government by creating a larger tax base 
for the benefit of 
all residents of 
the area; and 
WHEREAS, without any intent to compromise each Party's legislative prerogative, the Parties 
desire to enter into this Agreement to facilitate collaboration in the provision of funding for 
business recruitment, retention and expansion, workforce recruitment and development, as well as 
for economic development incentives; and 
WHEREAS, the governing body of each of 
the Parties finds the functions and services described 
herein constitute a governmental function or service or function that such Party is authorized to 
perform individually. 
123
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of 
the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, 
the sufficiency of 
which are acknowledged, and subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set 
forth, the Parties agree as follows: 
I. Purpose. 
The Parties enter into this agreement for the purpose of 
coordinating efforts to encourage, stimulate 
and promote economic development in the Rockport-Fulton-Aransas County area. It is the Parties 
intent to establish a Local Government Corporation to serve as a "one stop" destination focusing 
the efforts of 
the respective local governments to advance workforce recruitment and development, 
and business recruitment and expansion, and to offer economic incentives to industrial, 
commercial and residential developers and businesses. To that end, the Parties enter into this 
Agreement to promise allocations of funding to meet the purpose, authorize the establishment of 
a corporate structure to facilitate this purpose, and commit to give due consideration to 
recommendations made by the corporate entity when considering matters related to workforce 
recruitment/development, business recruitment and the offer of economic incentives for the 
development or improvement of land. The Corporation shall function under the direction of the 
Parties and shall have no control of 
any Party's property or assets unless expressly granted by that 
Party. 
II. 
The Local Government Corporation. 
2. 1 
The Corporation. The Parties agree to incorporate the Aransas County Alliance Local 
Government Corporation (the Corporation) pursuant to Texas Transportation Code 
Chapter 431 , Subchapter D. 
2.2 
The Corporation shall operate pursuant to its Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws to 
facilitate the Purposes of 
this Agreement. 
2.3 
Articles of Incorporation/Certificate of Formation. By approval of this Agreement, the 
Parties approve the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation as set out in substantial form 
in Exhibit "A." 
Said Articles shall constitute a Certificate of Formation under the 
provisions of 
the Texas Business Organizations Code. 
2.4 
Bylaws. By approval of 
this Agreement, the Parties approve the Corporation's Bylaws as 
set out in substantial form in Exhibit "B." 
III. 
Public Private Partnership. 
3. 1 
Subject to the approval of the Governing Body of each Party, the Local Government 
Corporation may contract with, joint venture with, or partner with a private nonprofit 
corporation or foundation to achieve the purposes of 
this Agreement. 
Aransas County Alliance Interlocal Agreement 
Page 2 of7 
C:\Users\lmurphy\AppData\Local\M icrosoft\ 
Windows\lNetCache\Content.Outlook\S4JT 
A 
WG D\ 19 lnterlocal Agmt I 
007.docx 
124
IV. 
Contract. 
4.1 
The Parties may approve a Contract with the Alliance for the delivery of services by 
separate action of 
each Party. 
V. 
Funding. 
5.1 
Current fiscal year. For the current fiscal year County, Rockport, Fulton and District each 
authorize the payment, out of currently available funds, in the amount of $12,000.00 
(County); $12,000.00 (Rockport); $2,500.00 (Fulton); $2,500.00 (District); (collectively 
the "Agreed Amount"). Each Party shall transfer funds equal to the Agreed Amount into 
the operations account of the Corporation within 30 days after such account is open and 
available to receive deposits. 
5 
.2 
Subsequent fiscal years. It is the intent of the Parties in subsequent fiscal years, until the 
termination of this Agreement, to continue to provide funding. In that regard, every 
subsequent year during the term, each Party pledges to use best efforts to obtain and 
appropriate funds for payment of 
the Agreed Amount, and deposit same into the operations 
account of the Corporation within 30 days after budget approval. In the event any Party 
fails to budget the Agreed Amount in any subsequent budget year said Party shall inform 
the other Parties in writing within 10 business days after such failure. The remaining 
Parties may either continue with the Agreement, without the defaulting Party or terminate 
the defaulting Party's rights and obligations under this Agreement and continue 
administering this Agreement without the defaulting Party. 
5 
.3 Termination of 
a Party's rights under this Agreement shall also terminate that Party's rights 
in the Corporation and its governance. 
VI. 
Administration. 
6.1 
This Agreement shall be administered collectively by County's Judge; Rockport's City 
Manager; Fulton's Mayor, and District's Harbor Master, on behalf of and under the 
supervision of 
the governing body of administrator's respective Party. The administrators 
shall meet quarterly on a regular schedule set by the administration. Special meetings may 
be called by two of the four administrators. A Party's administrator or the Party may 
designate another person to act in the administrator's stead in the case of 
unavailability. 
6.2 
The administrators are charged with monitoring the contracts, services and programs 
authorized under this Agreement; and shall provide reports to their respective governing 
bodies as directed by said governing bodies. 
6.3 
Each Party may replace its respective administrator with another official or other person. 
6.4 
A quorum at any meeting shall consist of the presence of 3 of the administrators. At a 
Special Meeting, an affirmative vote of 3 administrators shall be required to take action, 
unless otherwise agreed by all Parties as to the particular action. 
Aransas County Alliance Interlocal Agreement 
Page 3 of 
7 
C:\Users\lmurphy\AppData\Local\Microsoft\ Windows\1NetCache\Content.Outlook\S4JT 
A 
WGD\ 19 lnterlocal Agmt 1007.docx 
125
VII. Binding Effect; Benefiting Parties 
7.1 
This Agreement shall bind and benefit the respective Parties and their legal successors, but 
shall not be assignable, in whole or in part, by either Party without first obtaining the 
written consent of 
each of 
the other Parties. 
7.2 
This Agreement inures to the benefit of 
and obligates only the Parties. No term or provision 
of this Agreement shall benefit or obligate any person or entity not a Party to the 
Agreement. The Parties shall cooperate fully in opposing any attempt by any third person 
or entity to claim any benefit, protection, release, or other consideration under this 
Agreement. 
7 
.3 
Any financial obligations contemplated in this Agreement are from funds appropriated by 
the Parties in the current fiscal year budget for such public purpose and any future financial 
obligations contemplated in this Agreement are subject to the appropriation of 
those funds 
in future fiscal year budgets. 
VIII. Governmental Functions; Liability; No Waiver of Immunity or Defenses. 
8.1 
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, this Agreement is a contract for and 
with respect to the performance of 
governmental functions by governmental entities. 
8.1.1 
The services provided for herein are governmental functions, and the Parties shall be 
engaged in the conduct of 
a governmental function while providing and/or performing any 
service pursuant to this Agreement. 
8.1.2 
The relationship of 
the Parties shall be that of 
independent contractors. 
8.1.3 Nothing contained herein shall be deemed or construed by the Parties, or by any third party, 
as creating the relationship of principal and agent, partners, joint ventures, or any other 
similar such relationship between the Parties. 
8.2 
Each Party shall have no liability whatsoever for the actions of, or failure to act by, any 
other Party or any employees, contractors, subcontractors, agents, representatives, or 
assigns of any other Party in connection with the Agreement or the Corporation or its 
activities; and the Parties covenant and agree, to the extent permitted by law, that each shall 
be solely responsible for any claim or cause of action arising out of or with respect to any 
act, omission, or failure to act by its respective employees, contractors, subcontractors, 
agents, representatives, or assigns, in connection with the Agreement. 
8.3 
Each Party reserves and does not waive any defense available to it at law or in equity as to 
any claim or cause of 
action whatsoever that may arise or result from or in connection with 
this Agreement. This Agreement shall not be interpreted nor construed to give to any third 
party the right to any claim or cause of action, and neither the County, Rockport, Fulton 
nor the District shall be held legally liable for any claim or cause of 
action arising pursuant 
to or in connection with this Agreement except as specifically provided herein or by law. 
Aransas County Alliance Interlocal Agreement 
Page 4 of 
7 
C:\Users\lrnurphy\AppData\Local\M icrosoft\ Windows\fNetCache\Content.Outlook\S4JT 
A 
WGD\19 lnterlocal Agrnl I 
007 .docx 
126
8.4 
No Party waives or relinquishes any immunity or defense on behalf of itself, its trustees, 
councilmembers, commissioners, board members, officers, employees, administrators, and 
agents as a result of 
the execution of 
this Agreement and the performance of 
the covenants 
and agreements contained herein. 
8.5 
No Party waives or relinquishes any of its sovereignty or its legislative or police powers. 
No Party shall be bound by any recommendation made by the Local Government 
Corporation that a Party act or not act in any matter or manner, to provide economic 
incentives, or take other legislative action. 
8.6 
No Party shall have any rights in or control over any property or other asset of any other 
Party by virtue of 
this Agreement, the Articles, or Bylaws, nor shall the Local Government 
Corporation or any third party contracting with the Corporation have any rights in or 
control over any property or other assets of a Party unless that Party expressly agrees in 
writing. 
IX. Notices 
9.1 
All notices, correspondence, and communications concerning this Agreement shall be 
directed to the following, or to the successor in such office, or as otherwise hereafter 
directed in accordance with a notice from the Party: 
County: 
Rockport: 
Fulton: 
District: 
Aransas County 
C.H. "Burt" Mills, Jr. County Judge 
2840 Highway 35 North 
Rockport, TX 78382 
City of 
Rockport 
Kevin Carruth, City Manager 
2751 Highway 35 bypass 
Rockport, TX 78382 
Town of 
Fulton 
Jimmy Kendrick, Mayor 
P.O. Box 1130 
Fulton, TX 78358 
Aransas County Navigation District 
Keith Barrett, Harbor Master 
911 Navigation Circle 
Rockport, TS 78382 
9.2 
Notices required hereunder shall be in writing and hand-delivered or sent by prepaid 
certified mail, return receipt requested. 
Aransas County Alliance Interlocal Agreement 
Page 5 of 
7 
C:\Users\lmurphy\AppData\Local\Microsoft\ Windows\1NetCache\Content.Outlook\S4JT 
A 
WGD\19 lnterlocal Agmt I 
007.docx 
127
X. Severability 
10.1 
If 
any provision of 
this Agreement shall be deemed void or invalid, such provision shall be 
severed from the remainder of this Agreement, which shall remain in force and effect to 
the extent that the purposes of 
this Agreement can be achieved. 
XI. Entire Agreement 
11.1 
This Agreement is the entire agreement between the Parties as to the subject matter hereof 
and supersedes any prior understanding or written or oral agreement relative to the subject 
matter hereof. This Agreement may be amended only by written instrument duly approved 
and executed by all the Parties in accordance with the formalities of 
this Agreement. 
XII. Governing Law; Venue 
12.1 
All Parties agree that this Agreement shall be construed under the laws of the State of 
Texas, and obligations under the Agreement shall be performed in Aransas County, Texas. 
In the event that any legal proceeding is brought to enforce this Agreement or any provision 
hereof, the same shall be brought exclusively in a state court sitting in Aransas County, 
Texas. The Parties agree to submit to the jurisdiction of 
said court. 
XIII. Term and Termination 
13 .1 
This Agreement shall be effective as of the date on which the last Party signs this 
Agreement and shall remain in effect for a period of 
three (3) years. This Agreement may 
be renewed for up to five three-year terms upon the agreement of the Parties. Any party 
may terminate its participation in this Agreement at any time with or without cause and 
without penalty prior to the end of 
the term by providing ninety (90) days written notice to 
the other parties of 
its intent to terminate. 
13 .2 
Termination of 
a Party's rights under this Agreement shall also terminate that Party's rights 
in the Corporation and its governance. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this agreement as of the date set forth 
above. 
COURT on the 
Aransas County Alliance Interlocal Agreement 
Page 6 of 
7 
C:\Users\lmurphy\AppData\Local\M icrosoft\ 
Windows\1NetCache\Content.Outlook\S4JT 
A 
WGD\19 Interlocal Agmt I 
007 .docx 
128
PASSED and APPROVED by ROCKPORT CITY COUNCIL on the\d-.~ayof'/JOU , , 2019. 
ATTEST: 
I':,' 
PASSEDandAPPR0¥, ·., 
:1 OWNOFFULTONCOUNCILonthe21stdayofOctober , 2019. 
~ .o:,, i.\ 
' .\/;~'¥-
ATTEST: 
TOWN OF FULTON: 
PASSED and APPROVED by the NAVIGATION AND CANAL COMMISSION OF THE 
ARANSAS COUNTY NAVIGATION DISTRICT on the 6th day of August , 2019. 
ATTEST: 
ARANSAS COUNTY NAVIGATION 
DISTRICT 
c~~~ 
Malcolm Dieckow, Chairman 
Aransas County Alliance Interlocal Agreement 
Page 7 of 
7 
C:\Users\lmurphy\AppData\Local\Microsoft\ 
Windows\lNetCache\Content.Outlook\S4JT 
A 
WGD\19 lnterlocal Agmt I 
007.docx 
129
Ordinance Cont. of Disaster Declaration – June 9, 2020 Council Mtg. 
Page 1 of 1 
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA 
Regular Meeting:  Tuesday, June 9, 2020 
 
AGENDA ITEM:  14 
 
Deliberate and act on an Ordinance of the City Council of the City of Rockport, Texas, 
extending a Declaration of Local Disaster for the period of June 9 – June 23, 2020; 
establishing rules and regulations for the duration of the disaster; restricting certain activities; 
and establishing penalties for violations. 
 
SUBMITTED BY:  City Manager Kevin Carruth 
 
APPROVED FOR AGENDA:  PKC 
 
BACKGROUND:  Mayor Rios declared the original state of disaster for the City of Rockport 
beginning March 16, 2020.  Texas Government Code Section 418.108(b) states that the state 
of disaster shall continue for a period of not more than seven days from the date of this 
declaration unless continued or renewed with the consent of the governing body of the 
political subdivision.  The original Disaster Declaration expired on March 22, 2020.  On 
March 24, 2020, City Council adopted an Ordinance continuing and renewing the Disaster 
Declaration for the period of March 23 – April 14, 2020; on April 14, 2020, they adopted an 
Ordinance continuing and renewing the Disaster Declaration for the period of April 14, 2020 
– May 4, 2020; on April 28, 2020, they adopted an Ordinance continuing and renewing the 
Disaster Declaration for the period of May 4, 2020 – May 12, 2020; on May 12, 2020  they 
adopted an Ordinance continuing and renewing the Disaster Declaration for the period of 
May 12, 2020 – May 26, 2020; and on May 26, 2020, they adopted an Ordinance continuing 
and renewing the Disaster Declaration for the period of May 26, 2020 – June 9, 2020.   The 
proposed Ordinance continues and renews the Disaster Declaration for the period of June 9, 
2020 – June 23, 2020, matches other orders that will also be extended. 
 
FISCAL ANALYSIS:  N/A 
 
RECOMMENDATION:  Staff recommends Council adopt the Ordinance extending a 
Declaration of Local Disaster for the period of June 9, 2020 – June 23, 2020; establishing 
rules and regulations for the duration of the disaster; restricting certain activities; and 
establishing penalties for violations, as presented.   
 
130
 
Ordinance No. ____                                                                                                                                                           Page 1 of 4 
 
ORDINANCE NO. _____ 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ROCKPORT, TEXAS, 
EXTENDING A DECLARATION OF LOCAL DISASTER FOR THE PERIOD OF 
JUNE 9 – JUNE 23, 2020; ESTABLISHING RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE 
DURATION OF THE DISASTER; RESTRICTING CERTAIN ACTIVITIES; AND 
ESTABLISHING PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS. 
 
WHEREAS, in December 2019 a novel coronavirus, now designated COVID-19, was detected 
in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China.  Symptoms of COVID-19 include fever, cough, and 
shortness of breath.  Outcomes have ranged from mild to severe illness, and in some cases death; 
and 
 
WHEREAS, on January 30, 2020, the World Health Organization Director General declared the 
outbreak of COVID-19 as a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC), advising 
countries to prepare for the containment, detection, isolation and case management, contact tracing 
and prevention of onward spread of the disease; and 
 
WHEREAS, on March 5, 2020, the World Health Organization Director General urged aggressive 
preparedness and activation of emergency plans to aggressively change the trajectory 
of this epidemic; and 
 
WHEREAS, on March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared that the COVID-19 
outbreak should be characterized as pandemic; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention is closely monitoring the growing 
number of COVID-19 cases that have spread into the United States; and 
 
WHEREAS, over 1,629 cases of COVID-19 have been reported in the United States, including 
41 deaths; and 
 
WHEREAS, a large gathering of unidentifiable individuals without necessary mitigation for the 
spread of infection may pose a risk of the spread of infectious disease; and 
 
WHEREAS, President Trump declared a national emergency on March 13, 2020; and 
 
WHEREAS, Governor Greg Abbott declared a public health disaster on March 13, 2020; and  
 
WHEREAS, the Center for Disease Control recommends that citizens stop handshaking, clean 
hands at the door, schedule regular hand washing, avoid touching faces and cover coughs and 
sneezes, disinfect surfaces like doorknobs, tables, desks, and handrails regularly, and increase 
ventilation by opening windows or adjusting air conditioning; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Center for Disease Control recommends the use of videoconferencing for 
meetings when possible, and adjusting or postponing large meetings or gatherings; and 
 
131
 
Ordinance No. ____                                                                                                                                                           Page 2 of 4 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Center for Disease Control recommends citizens stay home if they are feeling 
sick or when they have a sick family member in their home; and 
 
WHEREAS, households with vulnerable seniors and those with underlying health conditions 
should conduct themselves as if they were a significant risk to the person with underlying 
conditions; and 
WHEREAS, the identification of “community spread” cases of COVID-19 in the United States 
could has signaled that transmission of the virus is no longer limited to those who traveled to 
China, or had contact with travelers who have visited china; and 
 
WHEREAS, the COVID-19 virus spreads between people who are in close contact with one 
another through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes; and 
 
WHEREAS, the continued worldwide spread of COVID-19 presents an imminent threat of 
widespread illness, which requires emergency action; and 
 
WHEREAS, a declaration of local disaster includes the ability to take measures to reduce the 
possibility of exposure to disease, control the risk, and promote the health and safety of Rockport 
residents; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Rockport will work collaboratively with Aransas County to ensure that 
all appropriate and necessary measures are taken to limit the development, contraction and spread 
of COVID-19; and 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Texas Disaster Act of 1975, the Mayor is designated as the 
emergency management director of the City of Rockport, and may exercise the powers granted to 
the governor on an appropriate local scale; and  
WHEREAS, a declaration of local disaster and public health emergency includes the ability to 
reduce the possibility of exposure to disease, control the risk, promote health, compel persons to 
undergo additional health measures that prevent or control the spread of disease, including 
isolation, surveillance, quarantine, or placement of persons under public health observation, 
including the provision of temporary housing or emergency shelters for persons misplaced or 
evacuated and request assistance from the governor of state resources; and 
WHEREAS, the Mayor has made a Declaration of Public Health Emergency, and further declared 
all rules and regulations that may inhibit or prevent prompt response to this threat suspended for 
the duration of the incident; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Mayor, under the Texas Disaster Act of 1975, has authorized the use of all 
available resources of state government and political subdivisions to assist in the City’s response 
to this situation; and 
WHEREAS, the Mayor has determined that extraordinary and immediate measures must be taken 
to respond quickly, prevent and alleviate the suffering of people exposed to and those infected 
with the virus, as well as those that could potentially be infected or impacted by COVID-19. 
132
 
Ordinance No. ____                                                                                                                                                           Page 3 of 4 
 
WHEREAS, Pursuant to §418.108(b) of the Government Code, Mayor Patrick R. Rios, on 
March 24, 2020, renewed and extended the local state of disaster and public health emergency for 
the period of March 24 – April 14, 2020, declared for the City of Rockport, Texas, pursuant to 
§418.108(a) of the Texas Government Code.  
WHEREAS, Pursuant to §418.108(b) of the Government Code, Mayor Patrick R. Rios, on 
April 14, 2020, renewed and extended the local state of disaster and public health emergency for 
the period of April 14 – May 4, 2020, declared for the City of Rockport, Texas, pursuant to 
§418.108(a) of the Texas Government Code.  
WHEREAS, Pursuant to §418.108(b) of the Government Code, Mayor Patrick R. Rios, on 
April 28, 2020, renewed and extended the local state of disaster and public health emergency for 
the period of May 4 – May 12, 2020, declared for the City of Rockport, Texas, pursuant to 
§418.108(a) of the Texas Government Code.  
WHEREAS, Pursuant to §418.108(b) of the Government Code, Mayor Patrick R. Rios, on 
May 12, 2020, renewed and extended the local state of disaster and public health emergency for 
the period of May 12 – May 26, 2020, declared for the City of Rockport, Texas, pursuant to 
§418.108(a) of the Texas Government Code.  
WHEREAS, Pursuant to §418.108(b) of the Government Code, Mayor Patrick R. Rios, on 
May 26, 2020, renewed and extended the local state of disaster and public health emergency for 
the period of May 26 – June 9, 2020, declared for the City of Rockport, Texas, pursuant to 
§418.108(a) of the Texas Government Code.  
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF 
ROCKPORT, TEXAS: 
 
Section 1. 
The recitals contained in the preamble hereof are hereby found to be true, and such 
recitals are hereby made a part of this Ordinance for all purposes and are adopted 
as a part of the judgment and findings of the City Council. 
 
Section 2. 
The local state of disaster and public health emergency declared by Mayor Patrick 
R. Rios for the City of Rockport, Texas, pursuant to §418.108(a) of the Texas 
Government Code is hereby renewed and extended for a period of June 9, 2020 – 
June 23, 2020, pursuant to §418.108(b) of the Government Code.  
Section 3. 
Pursuant to §418.108(c) of the Government Code, this declaration of a local state 
of disaster and public health emergency shall be given prompt and general publicity 
and shall be filed promptly with the City Secretary. 
 
Section 4. 
Pursuant to §418.108(d) of the Government Code, this declaration of a local state 
of disaster and public health emergency activates the City of Rockport emergency 
management plan. 
 
Section 5. 
Pursuant to §418.020(c) of the Government Code, this declaration authorizes the 
City to commandeer or use any private property, temporarily acquire, by lease or 
other means, sites required for temporary housing units or emergency shelters for 
evacuees, subject to compensation requirements. 
 
Section 6.   Pursuant to §122.006 of the Health and Safety Code, this declaration authorizes the 
133
 
Ordinance No. ____                                                                                                                                                           Page 4 of 4 
 
City to take any actions necessary to promote health and suppress disease, 
including quarantine, examining and regulating hospitals, regulating ingress and 
egress from the City, and fining those who do not comply with the City’s rules. 
 
Section 7. 
All ordinances or parts thereof, which are in conflict or inconsistent with any 
provision of this Ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict, and 
the provisions of this Ordinance shall be and remain controlling as to the matters 
herein. 
 
Section 8. 
This Ordinance shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the 
State of Texas and the United States of America. 
 
Section 9. 
If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or 
circumstance shall be held to be invalid, the remainder of this Ordinance and the 
application of such provision to other persons and circumstances shall nevertheless 
be valid, and the City Council hereby declares that this Ordinance would have been 
enacted without such invalid provision. 
 
Section 10. It is officially found, determined, and declared that the meeting at which this 
Ordinance is adopted was open to the public and public notice of the time, place, 
and subject matter of the public business to be considered at such meeting, 
including this Ordinance, was given, all as required by Chapter 551, Texas 
Government Code, as amended. 
 
Section 11. This Ordinance shall be in force and effect from and after its final passage, and any 
publication required by law. 
 
PASSED, ADOPTED, APPROVED, AND EFFECTIVE THE  9th DAY of JUNE 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF ROCKPORT, TEXAS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patrick R. Rios, Mayor 
ATTEST: 
 
_________________________________ 
Teresa Valdez, City Secretary 
134
COVID-19 – June 9, 2020 Council Meeting 
Page 1 of 1 
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA  
Regular Meeting:  June 9, 2020 
 
AGENDA ITEM:  15 
 
Hear and deliberate on status of COVID-19 and response efforts. 
 
SUBMITTED BY:  City Manager Kevin Carruth 
 
APPROVED FOR AGENDA:  PKC 
 
BACKGROUND:  Staff will provide the latest information on the COVID-19 pandemic and local 
response efforts. 
 
FISCAL ANALYSIS:  N/A 
 
RECOMMENDATION:  Not an action item. 
135
