Atchison County Commisssion Meeting
Commission Room
Courthouse
423 North 5th St
Atchison, Kansas  66002
June 9, 2020
WORKSHOP AGENDA
Chairman Jack Bower, 1st District
Commissioner Eric Noll, 2nd District
Commissioner Henry W. Pohl, 3rd District
9:00A.M. ZOOM MEETING ID # 940 8357 3726
Topics Up For Discussion
Corey Scott, Emergency Medical Services Director
2021 Budget Request 
Shelly Nelson, Community Corrections Supervisor
Departmental Discussion 
Kenny Blair, And Lonnie Martin, Cook Flatt & Strobel Engineers
Update on NextEra Transmission Line Project
Justin Noll, Public Works Director
Departmental Update 
Jack Laurie, County Sheriff
2021 Budget Request 
Wes Lanter, Emergency Management/IT Director, And Lori Forge, Atchison County 
Health Officer
Update on Phase 3 
Joe Bowen, Maintenance Supervisor
Departmental Discussion 
Commission Budget Request
Joint Communication Budget Discussion
Conversation About Fees For Bonds
Michelle Phillips, County Clerk
2021 Budget Request 
Zoom Details
Atchison County will be limiting public access to all Atchison County departments and 
offices to take preventative measures designed to reduce the spread of the 
Coronavirus illness.  We are making arrangements to adjust services to be in the best 
1.
2.
2.I.
2.II.
2.III.
2.IV.
2.V.
2.VI.
2.VII.
2.VIII.
2.IX.
2.X.
2.XI.
3.
Michelle Phillips, County Clerk
2021 Budget Request 
Zoom Details
Atchison County will be limiting public access to all Atchison County departments and 
offices to take preventative measures designed to reduce the spread of the 
Coronavirus illness.  We are making arrangements to adjust services to be in the best 
interest of the employees and citizens of Atchison County and following the interim 
guidance as provided by KDHE and the CDC.  The Atchison County Board of County 
Commission meetings will be utilizing Zoom to meet the Kansas Open Meetings Act. 
Members of the public can connect to the meetings via smart phone, or computer 
connections.  The meeting ID number will be listed on the corresponding agenda.  
Members of the public can attend the BOCC meeting in-person; however, we urge and 
encourage all citizens to take active steps to prevent the spread of COVID-19.  If you 
have any symptoms similar to the flu, including fever, cough or shortness of breath, 
please do not attend until symptoms have subsided and you have been fever-free for 
24 hours.
2.XI.
3.
