 
 
 
 
AGENDA 
BASEHOR PLANNING COMMISSION  
June 9, 2020 @ 7:00 p.m. 
Or virtually via Zoom at  
https://cityofbasehor.zoom.us/j/93078060047?pwd=TVlRS1IySGtGdkRZN1ZoMm1PM3JhZz09 
Basehor City Hall 
 
 
1. 
Call to Order 
 
2. 
Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call  
 
3. 
Approval of Minutes of the preceding meeting.  
a. Minutes of the April 10, 2020 Planning Commission Meeting   
 
4. 
Unfinished Business 
a. None 
 
New Business 
 
5. Public Hearing – Community Development Block Grant (CDBG-CV)- The State of Kansas 
and the Federal Government have released funding options through the CDBG program. If 
awarded these funds are to aid local businesses that were negatively impacted by the COVID-
19 outbreak. This public hearing is the first step in being able to apply for funds. 
 
6. Public Hearing – Approval of the Short-Form Final Plat for Baker’s Corner- Applicant is 
requesting approval of the short-form final plat as presented. This subdivision will create two 
(2) lots with an approximate location of 158th Street and Hickory Street.  
 
7. Open Agenda 
a. None 
 
8. Reports from Special Committees 
a. None 
 
9. Planning Directors Report 
 
 
a. YTD permit numbers-  
15 single family 
 
 
 
 
 
        
3 multi-family 
 
 
Total number of units 21  
 
 
 
10.  Adjournment 
MINUTES 
BASEHOR PLANNING COMMISSION 
APRIL 14, 2020 
BASEHOR CITY HALL 
Virtual Meeting Via Zoom 
 
1. Call to Order 
Chair Gallion called the meeting to order at 7:00p.m. 
 
   
2. Roll Call 
Members Present: Chair Jon Gallion, Vice Chair Mike Fonkert, Commissioners Stacy Tatkenhorst, Cecil Swenson, and 
Tom Lally 
 
Staff Present: Mark Lee, Planning and Zoning Director and Diana Jacobson, Planning Commission Secretary 
 
 
 
 
Absent: Two commissioner vacancies  
 
3. Approval of Minutes 
Chair Gallion called for a motion to approve the March 10, 2020 minutes. A motion was made by Commissioner Lally 
to approve the March 10, 2020 minutes with Commissioner Tatkenhorst seconding.   
Chair Gallion called for a vote, the motion passed 5-0. 
 
4. Unfinished Business – None  
 
5. Public Hearing to consider a Preliminary Plat for Estes Estates - The applicant is requesting approval of a final 
plat of +/- 9.516 acres with a general location of south of US 24/40 (State Avenue) and east of 153rd Street. The 
proposed plat will subdivide the property into twenty-two (22) lots allowing for the construction of forty-four 
(44) single family attached dwelling units. 
 
 
Mark Lee explained the reason for the request, the property location, the staff recommendations and the benefit to the 
community. Mark explained that the property was rezoned in 2008 and that the applicant would like (22) lots to build 
duplexes. 
 
Chair Gallion called for a motion to open the public hearing. Commissioner Fonkert made the motion with 
Commissioner Swenson seconding it. Chair Gallion called for a vote; the motion passed 5-0. 
 
 
 
Chair Gallion asked a question regarding the waterway and if there are plans to put anything through there or to let it 
drain naturally. 
 
 
C.L. Maurer-Land Plan Engineering, 1310 Wakarusa Dr., Lawrence KS. 66049- responded that the channel will be left 
where it is other than where the road crosses. The area on either side of the creek they will probably do some kind of 
vegetation strip but the channel will be left where it is. That they are following the MARC’s manual, which the City 
has adopted. 
 
 
Mark Lee stated that the drainage study submitted by C.L. Maurer and Land Plan Engineering has been sent out for 
review.  
 
 
 
Tom Lally asked if there is a noise abatement requirement with this project and Mark responded not at this time but 
could not say if something may come up in the future.Commisioner Lally also asked if there were any concerns from 
neighbors. Mark Lee said he has not heard from any of the neighbors and C.L. Maurer said he hasn’t either. 
 
 
Chair Gallion called for a motion to close the public hearing. Commissioner Fonkert made the motion with 
Commissioner Lally seconding it. Chair Gallion called for a vote; the motion passed 5-0. The public hearing is closed. 
 
     Chair Gallion called for a motion on the request. Commissioner Lally made a motion to approve with staff stipulations 
a final plat of +/- 9.516 acres with a general location of south of US 24/40 (State Avenue) and east of 153rd Street. The 
proposed plat will subdivide the property into twenty-two (22) lots allowing for the construction of forty-four (44) 
single family attached dwelling units; Commissioner Tatkenhorst seconding it.  Chair Gallion called for a vote and the 
motion passed 5-0. 
 
6.  Open Agenda – None at this time 
 
7.  Reports from Special Committees – None at this time 
 
8. Planning Directors Report   
 
Mark gave an update on current building permits and inspection requests. Said Council approved the final plat for 
Grayhawk Elementary School and that the city, school and library will all be responsible for the retention basin.  
Mark said he is putting together a proposal to have it designed. The Falcon Lakes item from last month regarding a 
change to the development plan, Mark said he doesn’t expect to hear back from them moving forward. Regarding the 
Mills Trust easement Mark is reaching out to the city engineer regarding the ROW and have them draw up the plan 
for the additional ROW. 
                                                    
9. Adjournment  
 
Chair Gallion called for a motion to adjourn.  Commissioner Tatkenhorst made the motion with Commissioner Fonkert 
seconding.  Chair Gallion called for a vote; the motion passed 5-0. There being no further discussion, the meeting was 
adjourned at 7:26 p.m. 
 
Submitted for approval without additions or corrections this ______________________. 
 
 
_____________________________ 
 
           ________________________________  
Jon Gallion, Chair  
 
 
 
 
 Diana Jacobson, Planning Commission Secretary 
City of Basehor 
Agenda Item Cover Sheet 
 
Agenda Item No. 5 
 
Topic:  Pubic Hearing – The following public hearing is required by the State of 
Kansas to be eligible for Community Development Block Grants. The State is currently 
offering relief funds for small businesses impacted by the COVID-19 health crisis. These 
funds are being issued under the Federal CARES Act (Coronavirus Aid, Relief and 
Economic Security Act) 
 
Narrative: The State of Kansas and the Federal Government have released funding 
options through the CDBG program. If awarded these funds are to aid local businesses 
that were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 outbreak. This public hearing is the first 
step in being able to apply for funds. 
 
There are three further documents to be seen and approved at the Governing Body level, 
they consist of documents that coincide with normal CDBG grant requests. 
• Resolution certifying legal authority and authorization 
• Residential Anti-displacement and Relocation Assistance Plan 
• Statement of assurances and certifications 
 
Presented by:  Mark Lee-Planning & Zoning Director 
 
 
Staff Recommendation: There is no official action to be taken, the public hearing is 
required to be held for any public input. 
 
 
Attachments:   
CDBG-CV FAQ Sheet – 7pgs 
Resolution – 1pg 
Anti-displacement and relocation assistance plan – 1pg 
Statement of assurances and certifications – 3pgs 
 
 
Projector needed for this item?  
No 
CITY OF BASEHOR 
Public Hearing Notice 
CBDG-19 Program 
 
 
Notice is hereby given that the City of Basehor, Kansas will hold a public hearing on Tuesday, 
June 9th, 2020, at 7:00 p.m. at the Basehor City Hall; 2620 N. 155th Street for the purpose of 
considering an application to be submitted to the Kansas Department of Commerce for Small 
Cities Community Development Block Grant funds under the Microgrant and Economic 
Development category. The specific project application to be discussed is CBDG-CV small 
business relief funds, these funds are to be granted by the State to Cities for disbursement to 
small businesses that were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 health crisis. If awarded the 
grant these funds will be available to pay for the following expenses: 
 
Working capital such as wages, utilities, rent, etc.  
 
The purchase of 60 days’ worth of inventory needed to reopen (60 days will begin on the day the 
business is allowed to reopen). 
 
Businesses with five or fewer employees (including the owner) are eligible to receive up to 
$25,000 per FTE job in CDBG-CV Economic Development grant funding (with a maximum of 
$30,000 per company). 
 
Businesses with between six and 50 employees are eligible to receive up to $35,000 for each 
FTE job in CDBG-CV Economic Development grant funding (with a maximum of $50,000 per 
company). 
 
With the uncertainties that surround the current health crisis and the re-opening of city facilities 
to the general public the hearing will also be available at the following web address:  
https://cityofbasehor.zoom.us/j/93078060047?pwd=TVlRS1IySGtGdkRZN1ZoMm1PM3JhZz09 
 
The link will posted on the City website at www.cityofbasehor.org also. 
 
The grant request will be for the maximum allowed ($300,000.00). Oral and written comments 
will be recorded and become a part of City of Basehor CDBG Citizen Participation Plan.  
 
Reasonable accommodations will be made available to persons with disabilities. Requests should 
be submitted to Mark Lee, Planning and Zoning Director by Monday, June 8th, 2020. 
All persons who desire to comment for or against said applications are invited to appear at the 
time and place mentioned above. Questions about the applications may be directed to Mark Lee, 
Planning & Zoning Director at 913-724-1370.  
 
 
Page | 1 
 
 
CDBG-CV 
Frequently Asked Questions 
 
 
GENERAL QUESTIONS & PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY 
 
Can I apply for both Economic Development and Meal Assistance grants? 
Yes. You can apply for both types of grants. If you are applying for both economic development and 
meal program grants, only one application is necessary.  
 
Who is eligible to apply?  
Non-entitlement cities and counties in the state of Kansas, which are defined as “general purpose 
units of government,” are eligible to apply for CDBG-CV funding. 
 
Are entitlement cities or counties eligible?  
No. Entitlement communities include Kansas City, Wichita, Topeka, Lawrence, Leavenworth, 
Manhattan, Overland Park and all cities within Johnson County. They are not eligible to apply for state 
of Kansas CDBG funds since they get funds directly from HUD.  
 
Could a county apply on behalf of multiple small cities? For example, several of our Counties 
have several small cities that may only have 1 to 5 businesses and it might be easier to have 
the County Economic Development person put together a joint application and administer the 
funds on their behalf.  
Yes. A county can apply on behalf of multiple cities / the entire county. However, if one of those cities 
also obtains funds independently of the county, the county funds cannot be used in that city. This is 
possible without an inter-local agreement.  
 
What is the difference between the Micro-Grants and Economic Development Grants?   
Micro grants are for those companies with five or fewer employees (with one being the owner). 
Economic development is for those businesses with between six-50 employees (the owner is not 
counted).  
 
Are companies with more than 50 employees eligible for CDBG-CV? 
No. Companies with more than 50 employees are not eligible to apply for CDBG-CV. The city or 
county can, however, apply for regular CDBG economic development grants. More information on 
these grants can be found online at www.kansascommerce.gov/cdbg.  
 
Where do I go to apply?  
Applications, as well as all necessary information on applying, can be found at 
www.kansascommerce.gov/cdbg-cv. On this site, you can review the guidelines, register a user 
account and complete the application.  
 
 
 
 
Page | 2 
 
Can I complete a paper application, or do I have to apply online? 
The entire application process is submitted online with the supporting documents uploaded as 
requested. Paper applications will not be accepted.   
 
If you have issues applying, including problems accessing the application or not receiving a 
verification email, please contact debbie.beck@ks.gov.  
 
On the application, there is a place to add/edit sources. What does that mean? 
This is only necessary for those applicants supplying matching funds, which is not a requirement.  In 
that case, you should list sources of funding and their corresponding dollar amounts. 
 
What is the anticipated time frame for city/county applications to be processed and money 
dispersed?  
The Department of Commerce will notify the community as quickly as possible if they have been 
awarded CDBG-CV funds, with the goal of notification within 15 days of application 
submission/completion.  
 
How quickly will businesses have access to funds?     
If the business is awarded funds from its city and/or county, funds will have to be drawn from the 
Department of Commerce. Once the draw request is submitted to Commerce, the city and/or county 
will have funds in 10-14 days.   
 
Do you anticipate the application being easy enough for communities to handle, or would the 
applications be better handled by contract grant administrator?  
That depends on the capacity of the city or county. 
 
What does “working capital” mean? 
Working capital can cover inventory, wages, utilities and everyday expenses except for paying 
existing debt off.  Businesses must provide invoices to the city/county when drawing down funds. 
 
Matching funds are not required, but will matching funds increase a community’s score when 
these are rated?  
There is no scoring. Awards are granted on a first-come, first-served basis. 
 
Does a city need to know exactly which businesses are applying before submitting their 
application, or can that be determined after funding is awarded?  
You don’t have to know exactly what businesses will apply and benefit from funding, but you should 
be prepared to provide some basic, high-level information on recipients in your application. 
 
If there is a city that has a split school district between two towns that wanted to utilize the 
grant dollars to do a summer food program and BOTH cities are LMI, who would apply and 
would a local agreement be sufficient ,or would each town have to do their own? The applicant 
would be the city and/or county where the physical building is located. The population served would 
need to be described in the Project Narrative. 
 
 
 
 
Page | 3 
 
Can businesses apply for CDBG-CV funds through the Department of Commerce?  
No. Only non-entitlement Kansas cities and counties can apply for CDBG-CV funding through the 
Department of Commerce.  
 
Businesses must make their applications for funding directly with the city or county where they are 
located. 
 
How will cities and/or counites distribute Economic Development grants to 
businesses?  
Each city and/or county determines how to allocate the funds awarded to them on a local level. The 
amount of funds able to be granted to businesses is dependent on the number of jobs retained per 
business.  
 
For businesses with 1-5 employees, up to $25,000 per FTE can be awarded, with a maximum funding 
of $30,000 per company. 
 
For businesses with 6-50 employees, up to $35,000 per FTE can be awarded, with a maximum 
funding of $50,000 per company. 
 
Can an applicant apply for an Economic Development grant and a Meal Program grant?  
Yes, so long as the community is LMI and the business receiving those funds proves national 
objective by retained LMI jobs. 
 
When applying for Meal Program grants, is the amount you apply for tied to a maximum per 
person ($2K) in the community?   
There is no per-person maximum for Meal Program grants; only a maximum total award of $100,000.  
 
Can meal programs be funded as Urgent Need?  
According to our HUD field office, no, meal programs cannot be funded as Urgent Need.  
 
Which organizations can be tasked with distributing food? 
A non-profit, or it can be directly from the city or county itself. 
 
Is PPE still available for nonprofit hospitals? 
No. PPE was initially being considered as an eligible expense; however, it removed due to additional 
funding being available through other sources. If your community is in need of PPE, work with your local 
county health commissioner. If you have difficulty accessing PPE, contact amy.selm@ks.gov. 
  
BUSINESS AND/OR PROJECT ELIGIBILITY 
 
How do I know if my city or county has CDBG-CV funds available for businesses?  
Cities and counties are responsible for notifying businesses if/when they receive CDBG-CV grant 
funding. If you have questions about whether or not your city and/or county has CDBG-CV grant funds 
available, you should contact your city clerk or county clerk offices directly.  
 
What types of businesses are eligible to receive CDBG-CV funding from their city and/or 
county? 
Businesses and organizations that suffered losses due to COVID-19, and who have not received 
funding from other resources, are eligible to receive CDBG-CV funding from their city and/or county. 
Businesses must have been in existence as of March 1, 2020. 
 
Page | 4 
 
Are businesses owned by public officials eligible to receive CDBG-CV grants? 
No. Companies with a conflict-of-interest (for example, a business owned by a city councilor) are 
ineligible for grant funds. 
 
If the local government provided small stipends in the beginning of the pandemic, are the 
businesses that received them now ineligible? 
You will not need information from businesses until after funding. If you used revolving funds before, 
you can still give them additional money, as long as they do not pay off the loans made previous with 
the new money.  
 
Do agricultural businesses (farming, ranching, dairy, etc.) impacted by the coronavirus 
pandemic qualify for the CDBG-CV opportunity?  
So long as the business meets the national objective of jobs being retained, agricultural business are 
eligible for CDBG-CV funding. 
 
A farmer’s cooperative has several branch locations in multiple cities and multiple counties. 
Does each location stand on its own, or is funding available only under the whole cooperative 
in whatever city or county it is located?  
Grants are awarded by location. 
 
Are home-based businesses eligible for CDBG-CV funding from their city and/or county?  
Yes. Home-based businesses are eligible to receive funding. 
 
If a business participated in the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP), are they eligible to 
receive CDBG-CV funds?  
Yes, but the CDBG-CV funds may not be used for employee salaries. 
 
If a business participated in the Economic Injury Disaster Loan program (EIDL), are they 
eligible to receive CDBG-CV funds?  
Yes, so long as it is not a duplication of benefits. 
 
If a business participated in the Hospitality Industry Relief Emergency (HIRE) Fund loan 
program, are they eligible to receive CDBG-CV funds? 
Yes. Because the HIRE Fund was funded with state dollars, there is no impact on a company’s ability 
to apply for and receive a CDBG-CV grant, as they are funded with federal dollars. 
 
Is the purchase and installation of hand sanitizer stations or physical dividers/barriers in a 
business is eligible?  
Yes. These items are considered working capital. 
 
Are the Economic Development grants eligible for paying off existing debt from other sources 
including local revolving loan funds?  
No.  
 
Generally, a church or school isn’t eligible for CDBG funds. If either has a food program or 
pantry, would they qualify?  
Yes. Churches and schools with food programs and pantries are eligible to apply through their city 
and/or county.   
 
 
 
 
Page | 5 
 
Is refilling a low or empty food pantry eligible under Meal Programs?  
Yes. Replenishing a food pantry is an eligible CDBG-CV project. 
 
Can a community create a new food pantry with the CDBG-CV funds?  
Yes. Communities can create new food pantries with the funding. 
 
Would the purchase of freezers be eligible for a food pantry?  
No. 
 
For Meal Program grants, must the funding be used directly for food cost, or could it be used 
to rent for a building for an emergency food pantry during COVID-19 period?  
Both are acceptable expenses/uses. Purchasing equipment, however, is not an acceptable expense. 
 
A local 501(c)3 runs the Meals on Wheels program, and they were not able to hold their major 
fundraiser because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Would they be able to apply?  
Yes. They would be an eligible recipient of CDBG-CV funds. The city and/or county would have to 
apply for those funds.  
 
REQUIREMENTS & PREREQUISITES 
 
Can a city administer their grants, themselves, or is a grant administrator required? 
The city may administer their own grant. However, CDBG funds cannot pay the salary for the individual 
administering the grant.  
 
What is the benefit of using a grant administrator? 
Grant administrators have experience with how the CDBG regulations work, so it may be advantageous for 
a city or county to look into procuring one to assist with administration after funding is awarded, but it is not 
required.  
 
Can CDBG-CV grant funds be used to pay for a grant administrator? 
The CDBG-CV program can pay for a grant administrator as part of the funding at a 10% maximum of the 
total application. You can find guidelines for how to procure a grant administrator within the 2019 General 
Application Guidelines on the Commerce website. If the city chooses to pay for an administrator 
themselves, that should be noted on the local budget. 
 
If a community does not have a planning commission, does the community still have to use the 
procurement process for the grant to pay for administrative services? 
The procurement process is required in this case. 
 
If only one bid is received, will we need a single-source waiver? 
Yes. A single-source waiver is required. 
 
 
 
 
Page | 6 
 
Can public meetings be conducted virtually?   
Yes. Public meetings may be conducting virtually using a video streaming service. A link to the website 
where the public meeting will be shown must be placed prominently on the grantee's website.  
 
A public hearing notice, including a web address where the public meeting will be streamed (if conducted 
virtually) must be published/printed in a local newspaper having general circulation in the community 
applying for the funds. Posting the public hearing notice online only is not allowed. 
 
You will need to upload a notarized copy of affidavit. This will be required and listed on the attachment list to 
check. Publications and hearings must be completed and documented before the application can be 
submitted. 
 
Can we conduct formal bid openings virtually?   
Yes. Like public meetings, the video streaming service must provide closed caption functionality and be 
able to collect and respond to comments and questions from the public. A link to website where the bid 
opening will be shown must be placed prominently on the grantee's website. Lastly, the newspaper 
advertisement must still run the required number days prior to the bid opening and web address to the 
grantee's website or the web address where public meeting will be streamed must be included.  
 
What year of LMI survey will be eligible?  
An LMI survey is only required if you are applying for Meal Program grants.  
 
Surveys conducted since the 2012 application rounds are eligible to use. Survey or HUD 2015 
Census Data is required to verify LMI % for cities or counties applying for meal programs. Job 
certifications after funding for businesses verifies the LMI % requirement. There are details on the LMI 
survey requirements in the 2019 General Application Guidelines. 
 
What are specific LMI requirements for applying? 
This grant is for existing businesses to retain employees or bring back employees they have had to let 
go due to COVID-19. The LMI is based on the employee and the size of their family, as well as family 
income for the previous 12 months from date they are certifying. Income qualification will be based on 
adjusted gross income.  
 
The 2019 application guidelines states, “Each prospective applicant must hold one public 
hearing a minimum of 15 days prior to application due date for any application submitted for 
CDBG funding.  Does this apply to CDBG-CV?     
No. Because there is no deadline for CDBG-CV applications, you only need to publish a minimum of 
five full days before the hearing (starting one day after publication date and not counting the date of 
the hearing, i.e., a total of seven days) 
 
For a county applying for Meal Program grants, on the application where it says survey or 
census, would they answer this for the LMI cities that would benefit? Should they list each 
one? 
You would mark survey, add them all up together and use that total number. Then, you will need to 
upload the survey method and how it was done, listing who was added to make the total numbers. 
This must match the benefit number indicated on your application. 
 
 
 
 
Page | 7 
 
Will the environmental review be per “project” or will it have to be per individual business?  
Micro Grants and Economic Development projects are granted to each business receiving funds, but 
as working capital it’s categorically excluded not subject to (CENST). The Meals Program falls under 
Exempt §58.34(4). 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
RESOLUTION NO. 2020- 
 
A RESOLUTION CERTIFYING THE LEGAL AUTHORITY OF AND 
AUTHORIZING THE CITY OF BASEHOR, KANSAS TO APPLY FOR FINANCIAL 
ASSISTANCE FROM THE CDBG PROGRAM THROUGH THE KANSAS 
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Basehor, Kansas, is a municipality duly organized under 
the laws of the state of Kansas; and    
 
WHEREAS, the City of Basehor, Kansas, intends to submit an application for 
financial assistance provided by the Federal Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security 
Act (“CARES Act”) through the Kansas Small Cities Community Development Block Grant 
Program (“CDBG Program”); and 
 
WHEREAS, the CDBG Program requires that the City of Basehor certify that the 
City is a legal governmental entity and thereby has the authority to apply for such financial 
assistance; and  
 
WHEREAS, the City wishes to so certify. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE 
CITY OF BASEHOR KANSAS: 
 
Section 1. 
That the Governing Body hereby certifies that the City of Basehor, Kansas 
is a legal governmental entity duly organized under the laws of the state of Kansas, and 
thereby has the authority to apply for financial assistance from the CARES Act through 
the CDBG Program.   
 
Section 2.  That the Governing Body hereby authorizes the Mayor, or the Mayor’s 
designee, as the City’s official representative in signing and submitting an application for 
financial assistance to the CDBG Program, and that the Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee 
has knowledge of all activities in the CDBG application for financial assistance.   
 
Section 3.   
That this resolution shall become effective upon passage.   
 
PASSED by the Governing Body this 24th day of June, 2020. 
 
APPROVED by the Mayor this 24th day of June, 2020 
 
 
[SEAL] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
David K. Breuer, Mayor 
 
2 
 
ATTEST: 
 
_____________________________ 
Katherine M. Renn, City Clerk 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
_____________________________ 
Shannon M. Marcano, City Attorney 
 
 
Community Development Block Grant 
16 
CDBG – CV Act Application 
 
(Minimum required by all applicants for funding – must be submitted with application) 
 
Residential Anti-displacement and Relocation Assistance Plan 
under Section 104(d) of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as Amended 
 
The jurisdiction will replace all occupied and vacant occupiable low- and moderate-income dwelling units demolished or 
converted to a use other than as low- moderate-income housing as a direct result of activities assisted with funds provided under 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, as described in 24 CFR Part 570.488. 
 
All replacement housing will be provided within three years of the commencement of the demolition or rehabilitation relating to 
conversion.  Before obligating or expending funds that will directly result in such demolition or conversion, the [jurisdiction]  will 
make public and submit to the Kansas Department of Commerce the following information in writing: 
 
1. A description of the proposed assisted activity; 
 
2. The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be 
demolished or converted to a use other than as low- and moderate-income dwelling units as a direct result of the assisted 
activity; 
 
3. A time schedule for the commencement and completion of the demolition or conversion; 
 
4. The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be provided 
as Section 104(d) replacement dwelling units; 
 
5. The source of funding and a time schedule for the provision of Section 104(d) replacement dwelling units; and 
 
6. The basis for concluding that each Section 104 (d) replacement dwelling unit will remain a low- and moderate-income 
dwelling unit for at least ten years from the date of initial occupancy. 
 
The jurisdiction will provide relocation assistance, as described in Section 570.488 to each low- and moderate-income household 
displaced by the demolition of housing or by the conversion of a low- and moderate-income dwelling to another use as a direct 
result of assisted activities. 
 
Consistent with the goals and objectives of activities assisted under the act, the jurisdiction will take the following steps to 
minimize the displacement of persons from their homes: 
 
Based on initial review of project, the following occupied dwellings (N/A)will be demolished with grant funds (should contain 
proposed demolitions): 
 
      
 
As chief official of the jurisdiction, I hereby certify that the above plan was officially adopted by the jurisdiction of       on the 
      day of      ,      . 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Signature – Chief Elected Official 
Community Development Block Grant 
12 
CDBG – CV Act Application 
STATEMENT OF ASSURANCES AND CERTIFICATIONS 
 
The applicant hereby assures and certifies with respect to the grant that: 
 
 
(1) 
It possesses legal authority to make a grant submission and to execute a community 
development and housing program. 
 
 
(2) 
Its governing body has duly adopted or passed as an official act a resolution, motion, or 
similar action authorizing the person identified as the official representative of the grantee to 
submit the final statement, all understandings and assurances contained therein, and directing 
and authorizing the person identified as the official representative of the grantee to act in 
connection with the submission of the final statement and to provide such additional 
information as may be required. 
 
 
(3) 
Prior to submission of its application to Commerce, the grantee has met the citizen 
participation requirements, prepared its application of community development objectives and 
projected use of funds, and made the application available to the public, as required by 
Section 104(a)(2) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and 
implemented at 24 CFR 570.486. 
 
 
(4) 
It has developed its final statement (application) of projected use of funds so as to give 
maximum feasible priority to activities which benefit low- and moderate-income families or 
aid in the prevention or elimination of slums or blight; the final statement (application) of 
projected use of funds may also include activities that the grantee certifies are designed to 
meet other community development needs having a particular urgency because existing 
conditions pose a serious and immediate threat to the health or welfare of the community, and 
other financial resources are not available. 
 
 
(5) 
Its chief executive officer or other officer of the grantee approved by Commerce: 
 
(a) 
Consents to assume the status of a responsible federal official under the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and other provisions of federal law as specified in 
24 CFR 58.1(a); 
 
 
 
(b) 
Is authorized and consents on behalf of the grantee and himself/herself to accept the 
jurisdiction of the federal courts for the purpose of enforcement of his/her 
responsibilities as such an official; and 
 
 
(6) 
The grant will be conducted and administered in compliance with the following federal and 
state regulations (see Appendix A: Applicable Laws and Regulations): 
 
(a) 
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-352), and implementing 
regulations issued at 24 CFR Part 1: 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, as amended, administering all programs and 
activities relating to housing and community development in a manner to affirmatively 
further fair housing; and will take action to affirmatively further fair housing in the 
sale or rental of housing, the financing of housing, and the provision of brokerage 
services; 
 
 
 
(c) 
Section 109 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended; 
and the regulations issued pursuant thereto (24 CFR Section 570.602); 
 
 
 
(d) 
Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended; and 
implementing regulations at 24 CFR Part 135; 
 
 
Community Development Block Grant 
13 
CDBG – CV Act Application 
 
 
(e) 
Executive Order 11246, as amended by Executive Orders 11375 and 12086 and 
implementing regulations issued at 41 CFR Chapter 60; 
 
 
 
(f) 
Executive Order 11063, as amended by Executive Order 12259 and implementing 
regulations at 24 CFR Part 107; 
 
 
 
 
(g) 
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112), as amended and 
implementing regulations when published for effect; 
 
 
 
 
(h) 
The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, (Pub. L. 94-135), and 
implementing regulations when published for effect; 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
The relocation requirements of Title II and the acquisition requirements of Title III of 
the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 
1970, as amended, and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR 570.488; 
 
 
 
 
(j) 
Anti-displacement and relocation plan requirements of Section 104(d) of Title I, 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended: 
 
 
 
(k) 
Relocation payment requirements of Section 105(a)(11) of Title I, Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended. 
 
 
 
(l) 
The labor standards requirements as set forth in 24 CFR 570.603 and HUD regulations 
issued to implement such requirements; 
 
 
 
 
(m) 
Executive Order 11988 relating to the evaluation of flood hazards and Executive 
Order 11288 relating to the prevention, control, and abatement of water pollution; 
 
 
(n) 
The regulations, policies, guidelines and requirements of 2 CFR Part 200 and A-122 as 
they relate to the acceptance and use of federal funds under this federally assisted 
program; 
 
 
(o) 
The American Disabilities Act (ADA) (P.L. 101-336: 42 U.S.C. 12101) provides 
disabled people access to employment, public accommodations, public services, 
transportation, and telecommunications; 
 
 
(7) 
The conflict of interest provisions of 24 CFR 570.489 apply to any person who is an 
employee, agent, consultant, officer, or elected official or appointed official of the state, or of 
a unit of general local government, or of any designated public agencies, or sub recipients 
which are receiving CDBG funds.  None of these persons may obtain a financial interest or 
benefit from the activity, or have an interest or benefit from the activity, or have an interest in 
any contract, subcontract, or agreement with respect thereto, or the proceeds thereunder, 
either for themselves or those with whom they have family or business ties, during their 
tenure or for one year thereafter, and that it shall incorporate or cause to be incorporated, in all 
such contracts or subcontracts a provision prohibiting such interest pursuant to the purpose of 
this certification; 
 
 
(8) 
It will comply with the provisions of the Hatch Act that limits the political activity of 
employee; 
 
(9) 
It will comply with the provisions of 24-CFR-200. 
 
(10) 
It will give the state, HUD, and the Comptroller General or any authorized representative 
access to and the right to examine all records, books, papers, or documents related to the 
grant; 
 
 
Community Development Block Grant 
14 
CDBG – CV Act Application 
 
(11) 
It will comply with the lead-based paint requirements of 24 CFR Part 35 Subpart B issued 
pursuant to the Lead-Based Paint Hazard Elimination Act (42 U.S.C. 4801 et seq.). 
 
 
(12) 
The local government will not attempt to recover any capital costs of public improvements 
assisted in whole or in part with CDBG funds by assessing properties owned and occupied by 
low- and moderate-income persons unless: (a) CDBG funds are used to pay the proportion of 
such assessment that relates to non CDBG funding or; (b) the local government certifies to the 
state that, for the purposes of assessing properties owned and occupied by low- and moderate-
income persons who are not very low-income, that the local government does not have 
sufficient CDBG funds to comply with the provision of (a) above. 
 
 
(13) 
It accepts the terms, conditions, selection criteria, and procedures established by this program 
description and that it waives any right it may have to challenge the legitimacy and the 
propriety of these terms, conditions, criteria, and procedures in the event that its application is 
not selected for CDBG funding. 
 
 
(14) 
It will comply with the regulations, policies, guidelines, and requirements with respect to the 
acceptance and use of federal funds for this federally assisted program. 
 
 
(15) 
It will comply with all parts of Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974, as amended, which have not been cited previously as well as with other applicable laws. 
 
 
The applicant hereby certifies that it will comply with the above stated assurances. 
 
 
       
Signature, Chief Elected Official 
 
Name (typed or printed) 
      
  
Title 
 
Date 
 
 
To Whom It May Concern: 
 
As Chief Elected Official of the City/County of      , I hereby certify that I have knowledge of all activities 
in the above-referenced application.  I also certify that I am aware that the regulations of the CDBG program 
prevent the use of any facility built or rehabilitated with CDBG funds, or any portion thereof, to be used for 
the conduct of official business.  I therefore certify that no portion of the above application violates this 
regulation. 
 
 
 
____________________________ 
Mayor/County Commission 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
____________________________ 
City/County Clerk 
 
 
City of Basehor 
Agenda Item Cover Sheet 
 
Agenda Item No. 6 
 
Topic:   Public Hearing – Short-Form Final Plat of Baker’s Corner as presented. 
 
Narrative: The property in question is not platted at this time, the proposed lot is 
currently vacant with a single-family residence presently on the “parent” parcel. The 
parent parcel shall remain, this parcel will contain approximately five (5) acres. Over the 
past several months staff has been working with the property owners to secure an 
easement for the installation of a gravity sewer main to service this proposed home. This 
will result in the removal of an outdated sewer lift station that serves a larger area. This 
easement has been approved and is moving forward at the Council level. 
 
Presented by:  Mark Lee-Planning & Zoning Director 
 
 
Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends approval of the short-form final plat with 
staff recommendations 
 
 
Attachments:   
Staff Report – 3pgs 
Engineers Review – 3pgs 
Aerial image of property location – 11x17 copy 
Copy of the proposed plat – 11 x 17 copy 
 
 
Projector needed for this item?  
Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE 
CITY OF BASEHOR 
PLANNING COMMISSION  
 
Notice is hereby given that the Planning Commission of the City of Basehor, Kansas will hold the 
following public hearings on June 9th, 2020 at 7:00 PM, in the meeting room of City Hall, located at 2620 
N. 155th Street, Basehor, Kansas for the following items. 
 
• 
Consider a Short Form Plat of the tract legally describe as:  
 
A tract of land in the Northeast Quarter of Section 34, Township 10 South, Range 22 East of the 
6th 
P.M., City of Basehor, Leavenworth County, Kansas, more fully described as follows: Commencing at 
the Northwest Corner of Lot 12, Block 4, HICKORY POINTE SUBDIVISION; thence North 89 
degrees 28 
'05" West for a distance of 60.00 feet along the South line of Hickory Street extended to the 
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING; thence South 
00 degrees 00'00" West for a distance of 137 
.00 feet 
along 
the West line of 
158th 
Street; thence North 89 degrees 28'05" West for a distance of 340.00 feet; thence 
North 00 degrees 00'00" West for a distance of 137 
.00 feet; thence South 89 degrees 28'05" East along 
the South line of Hickory Street extended to the point of beginning. 
Together with and subject to covenants, easements and restrictions of record. Said property contains 
1.07 acres, more or less. 
 
Also known as 15900 Hickory Street, Basehor KS 
 
All persons who desire to comment for or against said applications are invited to appear at the time and 
place mentioned above.  Copies of the applications and full legal descriptions are available for review 
during normal business hours at Basehor City Hall.  Questions about the applications may be directed to 
Mark Lee, Planning & Zoning Director at 913-724-1370.  
 
PLANNING COMMISSION 
CITY OF BASEHOR, KANSAS 
 
1 
 
BAKER’S CORNER SHORT-FORM FINAL PLAT – 
REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF A SHORT-FORM FINAL PLAT – A final plat of Lots 1 
and 2 of Baker’s Corner. 
 
MEETING DATE:  
June 9, 2020  
REPORT WRITTEN: 
June 1, 2020 
 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION: 
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the requested Short-Form Final Plat for 
Baker’s Corner with the stipulations stated in the staff report.  
 
APPLICANT: 
• Applicant  
John and Beverly Baker 
PO Box 337 
Basehor KS 66007 
 
• Surveyor  
Joe Herring 
Herring Surveying Company 
315 N. 5th Street 
Leavenworth KS 66048 
 
REQUEST: 
The applicant is requesting approval to subdivide the property located at 15900 Hickory Street, this 
is located on the southwest corner of Hickory and 158th Streets. The proposed lot will consist of 
approximately one (1) acre with the parent parcel containing approximately five (5) acres. The 
requested plat will not change any lots outside of the proposed area.  
 
ZONING: 
The property is currently zoned “R-0” Suburban Residential District. 
 
SURROUNDING ZONING: 
• North      “R-1” Single Family Residential District 
• South      “R-1” City owned facilities 
• East        “R-1” Single Family Residential District 
• West       “R-1” Single Family Residential District 
 
BACKGROUND: 
The property in question is not platted at this time, the proposed lot is currently vacant with a single-
family residence presently on the “parent” parcel. The parent parcel shall remain, this parcel will 
contain approximately five (5) acres. Over the past several months staff has been working with the 
property owners to secure an easement for the installation of a gravity sewer main to service this 
proposed home. This will result in the removal of an outdated sewer lift station that serves a larger 
area. This easement has been approved and is moving forward at the Council level.  
 
 
2 
 
A short-form plat procedure is being utilized for this application.  The purpose for a short-form plat 
is to provide a means of approving a subdivision of land that contains four (4) lots or less.  Short-
form plat shall serve as the final plat of the subdivision.  The submission and approval of a 
preliminary plat is not required as a prerequisite for a short-form plat approval; provided, that the 
public hearing requirements outlined in preliminary plats are met. 
  
 
 
Traffic Impact 
No additional traffic will be created by the proposed plat. The City will be acquiring an additional 
thirty (30) feet of public right of way with this plat for the future extension of Hickory Street 
traveling west. 
 
Stormwater Management 
Stormwater Management facilities will not be changed with the approval of the subject plat. 
 
Utilities 
New utilities will be proposed with the subject plat, these will be installed within the provided 
utility easements 
 
. 
 
 
3 
 
Subdivision Regulations Requirements 
The items to be included on the final plat per the Subdivision Regulations requirements have been 
met, an initial review has been conducted by the City Engineer with several comments and 
corrections being addressed. Approval will be sought by the Leavenworth County Surveyor as well. 
Currently awaiting revised drawings from the applicants engineer. 
 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION: 
Staff recommends approval of the Baker’s Corner short-form final plat application, with the 
following stipulations: 
 
1. Lot 1 shall be required to pay the applicable fees for new construction, prior to, or 
concurrently with the issued building permit 
a. Transportation Improvement Impact Fee- shall be paid at time of building permit 
issuance. The excise tax is as calculated as follows, $0.09 per square foot of real 
platted property, with a maximum of $2,600.00 for residential properties.  
a. Park Impact Fee- per city ordinance the applicant shall be required to pay a park 
impact fee (Parkland Fee) on individual dwelling units at the time of building permit 
issuance. This fee shall be $200.00 for each individual dwelling. 
b. All other applicable building permit fees as calculated 
 
2. Building setbacks shall be indicated on the final plat, setbacks for primary structures within 
the R-0 Zoning District are as follows:  
a. Front yard – Fifty (50) feet 
b. Side yard – Twenty-five (25) feet 
c. Rear yard – Thirty (30) feet 
 
3. All review comments made by the Leavenworth County Surveyor, City Engineer and Staff 
shall be addressed prior to approval of the Final Plat 
 
4. The final plat shall be recorded with the Register of Deeds of Leavenworth County, one 
registered copy shall be returned to city staff for record keeping purposes, prior to a building 
permit being issued. 
 
5. In addition to the stipulations in this report, the developer/property owner agrees to abide by 
all regulations contained in the Basehor Zoning Ordinances and Subdivision Regulations. 
 
15700 College Blvd. – Suite 202  •  Lenexa, KS 66219  •  913.888.4647  fax: 913.390.9865 
 
 
 
April 29, 2020 
 
Mark Lee 
City Planning Director 
Basehor City Hall 
2620 155th Street 
Basehor, Kansas 66007 
 
 
RE: Baker’s Corner  - Final Plat Review 
 
 
The following is a summary of review comments for the Final Plat of Baker’s Corner. The plat 
was reviewed in accordance with the City of Basehor current Subdivision Regulations and Final 
Plat Checklist.  Please refer to the attached pdf document for additional information regarding 
the comments outlined below. 
 
1) General Plat Comments 
a) It appears this 1 Acre tract has been subdivided from the parent parcel through an 
unrecorded survey, which does not align with City requirements.  The City requires this 
plat to incorporate both the parent parcel to the West and the tract shown as Lot 1 on 
the current version of Baker’s Corner.  These 2 tracts shall be identified as 2 separate 
lots within Baker’s Corner Subdivision. 
b) The South 30 feet of Hickory Street right-of-way shall be dedicated by this plat.  The 
owner shall work with the City on a developer’s agreement regarding the maintenance 
of the existing private drive. 
c) Utility easements shall be provided along all sides of the boundary in accordance with 
City of Basehor requirements. 
d) It is in the best interest of future property owners for Lot 1, Baker’s Corner to have the 
power relocated rather than establish a 10’ utility easement directly through the middle 
of the Lot.   
e) The Legal Description does not match the plat map courses and distances.  Correct the 
boundary description to coincide with the plat map.   
f) The right-of-way for 158th Street is indicated as 60 feet in width.  Hickory Pointe 
Subdivision only dedicated the East 30 feet of Right-of-way per plat.  Indicate the 
reference documentation that dedicates the West portion of Right-of-way for 158th 
Street as shown within the plat map. 
 
 
Baker’s Corner 
April 29, 2020 
Page 2 of 3 
 
 
g) According to the City of Basehor 2019 Comprehensive Plan’s Zoning Map the current 
Zoning is R-0 and current setbacks indicated do not match the current zoning.  Please 
provide revised setbacks in accordance with current zoning or indicate proposed zoning 
applicant is applying for. 
h) The Point of Commencement is shown at the Northwest corner of Lot 12, Hickory Pointe 
Subdivision.  Show found monument at this location and/or theory of retracement to 
show this corner and “the South line of Hickory Street extended” as called for in the 
legal description. 
i) Remove the reference to Phase 1 within the Lot Area note. 
j) A proposed utility, drainage, and access easement is indicated along the west boundary 
and a portion of the North boundary.  Indicate more clearly where the access easement 
and drainage easement terminate on the North boundary line. 
k) Provide dedication language for the proposed Access Easement (A/E) to be dedicated by 
this plat. 
 
2) Administrative Notes & Subdivision Checklist Comments 
a) Upon completion of comments, submit 2 copies of the final plat signed by a professional 
surveyor. 
b) Provide Item 16 of section 2-103 of City of Basehor Subdivision Regulations.  “A title 
insurance certification or a certificate of title prepared by a competent attorney 
showing that the proposed subdivider owns all the property within the plat in fee, and 
that it is free from encumbrances and liens.” 
a) Provide a legal boundary description referenced to section or quarter section corners in 
accordance with Item 17 of the Final Plat Checklist. 
b) Label the Point of Beginning on the plat map in accordance with Item 17 of the Final Plat 
Checklist. 
c) Provide Closure calculations in accordance with Item 18 of the Final Plat Checklist. 
d) Show monuments used to identify the existing portion of Hickory Street Right-of-way 
and 158th Street Right-of-way in accordance with Item 19 of the Final Plat Checklist. 
e) Show theory of retracement for the Southwest corner of Lot 1 in accordance with Item 
19 of the Final Plat Checklist. 
f) Indicate the area of Lot 1 in Square Feet in accordance with Item 21 of the Final Plat 
Checklist. 
g) All exterior plat boundary corners are to be set in concrete per Leavenworth County 
resolution 2005-50.  Provide note accordingly or update symbols within the plat map to 
match legend. 
h) Correct various instances of incorrect owner information and incorrect dates 
throughout the Certification and Dedication section in accordance with Item 33 of the 
Final Plat Checklist.   
i) Provide a written plan detailing the proposed routing and sanitary connection between 
the proposed development and the existing sanitary infrastructure in accordance with 
Item 44 of the Final Plat Checklist. 
 
Baker’s Corner 
April 29, 2020 
Page 3 of 3 
 
Please feel free to contact us with any questions regarding these 
at 913-888-4647 or steven.west@mhs
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Steven West, PS 
MCAFEE HENDERSON SOLUTIONS INC. 
 
cc:  
Mark Lee, City of Basehor
File/2019-050-008 
 
contact us with any questions regarding these plat updates 
4647 or steven.west@mhs-eng.com. 
 
 
 
 
Mark Lee, City of Basehor 
 
 by contacting us 
Baker's Corner Aerial
This Cadastral Map is for informational purposes only.  It does not purport to
represent a property boundary survey of the parcels shown and shall not be
used for conveyances or the establishment of property boundaries.
1 in. = 315ft.
629.4
THIS MAP IS NOT TO BE USED FOR NAVIGATION
Legend
Feet
0
629.4
314.71
Notes
Address Point
Lot Line
Parcel
Major Road
<all other values>
70
Road
Railroad
Area to be platted
Course
Distance
