 
AGENDA  
City Council Workshop 
 
 
June 9, 2020 
Council Chambers 
 
5 PM 
Tour of Acorn Award Winning Properties 
 
(Councilors: please use your own vehicles to meet at both locations)  
 
 
5 PM  
Meet at Residential Property Winner: 2671 Gresham Avenue 
 
 
 
(Gardener: Lori Krause will be available at location but not 
 
 
 
available to attend regular meeting) 
 
 
5:15 PM 
Travel Time 
 
 
5:20 PM 
Apostolic Bible Institute and Church, 6944 Hudson 
 
 
 
(Church staff likely not be available to join Council at location 
 
 
 
or attend regular meeting)  
 
 
5:30 PM 
Travel Time Back to City Hall 
 
5:30 PM 
Break 
 
5:45 PM 
Temporary Drive-in Cinema Permit: Marcus Theater 
 
6 PM 
Council Discussion 
 
6:15 PM 
Reappointment Interviews: EDC 
 
6:35 PM 
COVID Update 
  
6:58 PM 
 
Recess for Regular Meeting 
 
 
COUNCIL MEMORANDUM  
 
To: 
Honorable Mayor and City Council 
From: 
Craig Dawson, Interim City Administrator 
Date: 
June 9, 2020 
Subject: 
Board and Commission Reappointment Interviews: EDC 
 
At the June 9 work session, the City Council will interview seated commissioners who are seeking 
reappointment, per Policy MIS-013 – Board and Commissions Appointment and Reappointment 
Process. Applications for the respective members are provided under separate cover. 
 
6:30 PM 
Economic Development Commission 
 
 
 
Bill Burns  
 
 
Frank Orsello 
 
 
Bob Stiglich 
 
 
 
COUNCIL MEMORANDUM  
 
 
To: 
Honorable Mayor and City Council 
From: 
Linnea Graffunder-Bartels, Sr. Community Development Specialist, Bob Streetar, 
Director, Emily Shively, Planner 
Date: 
June 9, 2020 
Subject: 
Temporary Drive-In Cinema Permit 
 
BACKGROUND 
Marcus Theater (5677 Hadley Ave N) requests to use a portion of their parking as a drive-in cinema. 
Sound would be directed to customer’s automobiles via a low power FM transmitter. This request is in 
response to the continued closure of movie theaters and other entertainment venues due to the COVID-
19 pandemic. The ability to operate temporarily as a drive-in cinema would allow Marcus Theater to 
resume some business operations while also facilitating proper social distancing. 
 
Currently, the Zoning Ordinance or City Code does not explicitly address this type of use. However, on May 
26, 2020, the City Council approved a Business Recovery Assistance program that included several 
temporary measures to assist local businesses in recovering from the effects of the pandemic. The 
Council could build on the business assistance program by creating a temporary drive-in cinema permit 
that would allow for the operation of a drive-in cinema under certain conditions. 
 
RECOMMENDATION 
Staff recommends the City Council authorize a temporary drive-in cinema permit subject to the following 
conditions: 
1. The permit applies to existing parking lots of existing theatres only. 
2. A drive-in will not create a nuisance condition as defined by City Code. 
3. A drive will not serve alcohol. 
4. A drive-in shall have a COVID-19 Preparedness Plan as outlined in the Governor’s Executive Order 
20-56. 
5. The term of the permit shall be temporary, beginning on 10 June 2020 and ending no later than 
30 September 2020 unless the City Council extends or terminates the permit. 
6. Review and issuance of the permit shall be administrative. 
7. The city waives the permit fee. 
 
