 
 
Central Region 
Emergency Services Board – www.mnecb.org  
Wednesday, June 10, 2020 – 1:00 P.M. 
Microsoft Teams Meeting Link 
Agenda  
 
1. Call to Order with Pledge of Allegiance 
2. Introductions 
3. Approval of the Agenda (P1) 
4. Approval of Minutes 
a.  January 29, 2020 (P2-14) 
b.   March 25, 2020 (P15-18) 
5. Communications: 
a. KDVBergan Audit Presentation (View Letter) (View Financial Statement) 
b. MN Duty Officer Communication Resource (P19-30) 
c. Tusa Contract Review (P31) 
6.  Reports  
a. SECB   
1. MnDOT/ARMER/RIC Report (Update) 
2. SECB (Micah Myers) (P32-35) 
3. Finance Committee (Micah Myers) (P36-38) 
4. Interoperability Committee (Micah Myers) (P39-40) 
5. Wireless Broadband & Applications Committee (Brandon Larson) (P41) 
6. Legislative Committee (Micah Myers) (P42) 
7. Land Mobile Radio Committee (Kristen Lahr) (P43-48) 
8. Regional Coordinator Report (View online)  
b. EMS/Hospital Workgroup 
c. Regional Leadership Group (Next Meeting July 27, 2020)   
7. General Discussion and New Business 
a. Executive Committee Reports & Items 
1. 2020 SUA Cost Allocations (Update) (P49-71) 
2. SECB Committee Appointments (Update) (P72) 
b. RAC Report & Items 
1. 2021 CMESB Draft Budget (P73-76) 
2. SECB 2020-2021 & 2019 SHSP Grant (Update) 
3. Standard 8.1 (P77-81) 
c. O&O Report & Items 
d. User Report & Items 
e. EMAC Report & Items 
1. Approval of 2020 SHSP Grant Application (P82-84) (Action Required) 
f. 
NG911 Report & Items 
g. Logger Report & Items 
1. Bylaws (P85-93) (Action Required) 
2. Approval of Addition of non-Zone 4 talkgroups/Washington County (View online) 
h.  Additional Agenda items 
8.  Old Business 
a. ECN Program Updates Newsletter (View online) 
b. Attendance Update (P94) 
c. Current Representative List (View online) 
9.  Upcoming Meetings 
a. July 29, 2020 (Final Budget Meeting) 
10. 
 Adjournment 
 
Due to the Governor's Stay Safe Order during the Coronavirus pandemic, Central Region meetings may be conducted under 
Minnesota Statute 13D.021 – Meetings by Telephone or Other Electronic Means. 
 
 
- 1 - 
CENTRAL REGION  
EMERGENCY SERVICES BOARD (ESB) 
Wednesday, January 29, 2020 – 1:00 p.m. 
St. Cloud City Hall Conference Room #1, St. Cloud, MN 
 
Members/Alternates Present: 
1. Mike Conway – City of St. Cloud 
2. Spencer Buerkle – Benton County 
3. Erick Klepel– Big Stone County (via phone) 
4. Charlie Meyer – Douglas County 
5. Bill LaValley & Dwight Walvatne – Grant County 
6. Rollie Nissen – Kandiyohi County 
7. Steve Schmitt, Vice Chair – Meeker County 
8. David Oslin – Mille Lacs County 
9. Jeff Jelinski, Chair – Morrison County 
10. John Lindquist – Otter Tail County (via phone) 
11. Gordy Wagner – Pope County 
12. Leigh Lenzmeier – Stearns County 
13. Robert Kopitzke – Stevens County 
14. Eric Rudningen– Swift County (via phone) 
15. Gary Kneisl – Todd County 
16. Kevin Leininger – Traverse County 
17. Jon Kangas – Wadena County 
18. Neal Folstad – Wilkin County 
19. Charles Borrell – Wright County 
 
Other Members/Alternates Present: 
1. Micah Myers, Chair – Regional Advisory Committee (RAC) 
2. Kristen Lahr, Chair & Brandon Larson, Vice Chair – Owners & Operators Committee (O&O) 
3. Paul McIntyre, Chair – User Committee (Users) 
4. Stephanie Johnson, Chair – Emergency Management Advisory Committee (EMAC) 
5. Jason Karlgaard, Chair – NG911 Committee (NG911) (via phone) 
6. Brandon Larson, Chair – Regional Logger Committee  
 
Guests Present:  
1. Chris Schultz – City of St. Cloud 
2. Jon Combs – Grant County (via phone) 
3. Lynn Siegel, EMAC Secretary – Traverse County 
4. Seth Hansen – Wright County 
5. Shawna Athman – Wright County  
6. Tracey Fredrick – MESB  
7. Steve Tait, RIC – ECN  
8. Mike Kahl – Granite Electronics 
9. Dennis Ward – Tusa Consulting 
10. Norm Folger – Tusa Consulting 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 
Meeting called to order by Chair Jeff Jelinski at 1:00 p.m. followed by the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Quorum reached with 19 of the 19 members present for the whole meeting. 
 
INTRODUCTIONS: 
Introductions were conducted. 
 
- 2 - 
APPROVAL OF AGENDA: 
Stevens County moved to approve the agenda. Kandiyohi County seconded, motion carried. 
 
APPROVAL OF MINUTES: 
Wright County moved to approve the minutes from December 18, 2019. Wilkin County seconded, motion 
carried. 
 
COMMUNICATIONS: 
Larson announced that Al Fjerstad who was a long-standing member and representative for Mille 
Lacs County, he has probably been involved with the ARMER network since its inception when he 
was employed down in Hennepin County Sheriff’s Office, has retired. We wish him all the best.  
 
a. Election of Chair and Vice Chair 
Wright County nominated Jeff Jelinski for Chair. Pope County seconded. Wilkin County 
moved nominations cease. Wright County seconded. Chair Jelinski called the motion. 
Motion passed.  
 
Chair Jelinski opened it up for Vice Chair. Wright County moved Steve Schmitt from Meeker 
County be our Vice Chair. Stevens County seconded. Jelinski called three times for other 
nominations for Vice Chair. Jelinski stated nominations cease. Kandiyohi County moved to 
cast the unanimous ballot for Steve Schmitt. Todd County seconded. Chair Jelinski called 
the motion. Motion passed.  
 
b. Tusa Consulting – Discussion on Motorola SUA Agreement 
Dennis Ward explained he is a senior project manager with Tusa Consulting Services 
assigned to help the state negotiate their next SUA with Motorola. Norm Folger is our senior 
consultant; Folger used to work for Motorola for 37 years. Tusa Consulting Services is a 
firm that has been in business since 1992. We help public safety implement public safety 
radio systems all across the country. We have helped numerous customers negotiate SUA 
agreements. This is the first of two meetings we are going to be having with you. The first 
meeting is a high-level overview talking about the work we are currently embarking on, but 
then this fall we are going to come back and talk about the work we accomplished.  
 
Project Overview: Ward explained the State of MN has built out ARMER. You paved the 
way for a lot of statewide radio systems and a lot of people look to MN as the gold standard 
of how you do it. You are now in the process of maintaining it. The way you have been 
doing that is you have had a 5-year contract with Motorola to make sure the system never 
meets end of life. Every two years Motorola comes out with certain pieces of equipment, so 
the system never does hit end of life and it is self-sustaining. The current SUA agreement 
expires at the end of 2020. We are now in the process of preparing for the next 5-year 
agreement. While MnDOT owns the ARMER backbone, and majority of the infrastructure, 
there are many other entities that own subsystems and components. As a shared system, 
ARMER relies on all infrastructure owners to upgrade their equipment. This requires all 
parties be in an agreement and have funding secured before they can enter into another SUA 
agreement on behalf of the ARMER owners.  
 
Our Role and Process: Ward explained our role in this is to help negotiate what that 
agreement is going to look like for the next five years. We collected all the information we 
could from ECN and MnDOT. Our second step now is we are talking to as many 
stakeholders as we can to understand their role in ARMER. This is an introductory meeting.  
 
- 3 - 
COMMUNICATIONS: (Continued) 
b. Tusa Consulting – Discussion on Motorola SUA Agreement (Continued) 
Ward has been asked to read, “These presentations may be at regularly scheduled ECB/ESB 
meeting or part of a larger, annual planning meeting. In the event of an annual planning 
meeting, SECB grant funds are available for use.”  
 
Timeline and Deliverables: Ward explained we were asked to review the current SUA 
(Task #1). The next task we have is to talk to all the owners we possibly can (Task #2). We 
had a survey we circulated. We are trying to capture as much information as we can from 
subsystem owners. The 3rd deliverable we have is we have been asked to take that current 
agreement and compare it to the new negotiated agreement we are currently working on. 
They want to know what is different, what has changed, what has been added to, what has 
been subtracted, and how does each one of those changes impact the current agreement. 
Task #4 is where we are negotiating with Motorola on what that new SUA is going to look 
like. We have had multiple meetings in Chicago, Kansas City, and here in Minneapolis. We 
are going to be spending a lot of time with Motorola over the next month and half in St. Paul 
going through and negotiating this with ECN. Task #5 they have asked us to look at 
software release dependencies. They want to know if somebody upgrades, and somebody 
chooses not to upgrade, how does that impact the system? We have also been asked to look 
at the impact of skipped upgrades (Task #6). We have also been asked to look at the new 
SUA and its impact to SECB policy (Task #7). Task #8 we have been asked to look at cost 
containment strategies. How can the state and local owners save money with their ARMER 
investment? We have been asked to do a cost benefit analysis (Task #9). We have a 
preliminary one we are doing and then there is a final one. We will have all work completed 
and a final report presented by December 2nd (Task #10). 
 
Folger was assigned a couple of tasks. Get into the contract and get to know what Motorola 
said they were going to do. Let us analyze whether they did it. When we get the new 
contract let us compare this new contract to what they said they were going to do and maybe 
what they did not do. Task #1, Folger went into the several hundred-page contract and did a 
point-by-point analysis for each sentence, paragraph, clause. Folger created a spreadsheet 
showing who is responsible for doing that particular task. Folger started with the statement 
of work, moved into the maintenance, the network monitoring and other sections of the 
contract. Folgers submitted that to ECN. When we get the new contract we plan on taking 
that and doing the exact same thing. What we might find is Motorola shaved some things off 
their scope. They might be charging more.   
 
Update on Current Analysis: Folgers explained some of the costing he got from Tim Lee 
and the MnDOT folks. For 2019, MnDOT/ECN allocated a little over $10 million is what 
the cost of the 2019 SUA was and the SUA2+ (that is equipment and services). Folgers 
asked Tim Lee if he had the 2020 cost allocated yet, and Tim Lee had said we are going to 
keep the costs the same for 2020, unless agencies brought on additional equipment. Pope 
County asked did you negotiate contracts for Motorola in your career there? Folgers did.  
 
Folgers explained MESB is allocated $83 grand. The Metro agencies contributed almost $3 
million. The state users contributed $6 million of that $10 million. Folgers showed each of 
the agencies and counties in the Central Region and what your allocated costs were for 2019 
and what they will be again for 2020; $400K out of $10 million.  
 
 
 
- 4 - 
COMMUNICATIONS: (Continued) 
b. Tusa Consulting – Discussion on Motorola SUA Agreement (Continued) 
Update on Current Analysis: (Continued) 
Jeff Jelinski asked for an idea as to the length of this contract and the past length of 
contracts. Ward explained typically when Motorola enters into an SUA agreement, they like 
to do a 10-year SUA. However, the procurement rules in MN limit agreements to 5 years. 
Folger explained the current contract expires end of 2020 which is why Tusa Consulting has 
been retained to start negotiation with Motorola. It is not up to Tusa to finalize these 
negotiations. It is going to be up to ECN and the state, ARMER and perhaps MnDOT to do 
the final negotiations with Motorola. But we are starting the process and trying to ink out 
where they might be a little top heavy in their pricing. City of St. Cloud asked how much 
business have we generated by being the “gold standard” for Motorola as a provider to other 
organizations around the country? Folgers would think quite a bit. Motorola has the lion’s 
share of the market. City of St. Cloud was looking from a perspective of negotiating the next 
contract: How did we help you generate more business by using us as a reference? Folgers 
responded Motorola is entitled to a fair margin on business, but that does not mean the State 
of MN/ARMER should pay for the CEO’s yacht payments. If you are getting more services 
that is a good thing, because if the price is going up, hopefully there are services that are 
going to be thrown in. 
 
Cost Containment Strategies: Ward explained the state has asked us to help identify cost 
containment strategies for ARMER and ways they can save money. One of the strategies we 
are employing is we are looking for duplication of services. We are comparing the statement 
of work provided in the current SUA verses the statement of work the local owners have in 
their agreements with either Motorola or with their local service shop. We suspect there are 
some cases where the local owners are paying the service shop to do something MnDOT is 
already doing. One of the things we are asking everybody for is copies of their agreements, 
so we can find where there is a duplication of service. It will reduce the costs from the state 
and local owners end.  
 
Chair Jelinski asked are you guys calling on the phone, or physically going from county to 
county asking for the information? Ward explained we are emailing people to set-up phone 
interviews. ECN is arranging for us to come out and meet with all the different groups. 
Stearns County asked how do you differentiate duplication from redundancy, because you 
need redundancy in case a component fails. Ward replied the duplication comes down to if 
you have a contract with the local service shop and they are going out PMing that tower. 
Then MnDOT, with their agreement with Motorola, they are supposed to be going out to 
that tower as well and PMing it. If Tim Lee’s group is out PMing that site, we are going to 
ask the question back to Motorola did you guys go out and PM this as well. Then we are 
going to make a recommendation that you can eliminate this, because the state is already do 
this. Myers explained the ‘PM’ acronym was preventative maintenance. Myers added where 
you have contracts where if that service you are contracting with is already in the master 
contract then you should not be charged for that. It is not redundancy.  
 
Cost Benefit Analysis: Ward explained we will be doing a cost benefit analysis and we will 
be presenting it to SECB and each of the 7 regional Emergency Communications/Services 
Boards and ARMER subsystem owners, managers groups. As part of that presentation we 
will also review the final negotiated scope of work with Motorola and the SUA and talk 
about what impacts that will have. Those presentations will take place this fall.  
 
 
- 5 - 
COMMUNICATIONS: (Continued) 
b. Tusa Consulting – Discussion on Motorola SUA Agreement (Continued) 
Cost Benefit Analysis: (Continued) 
Stevens County asked is there a realistic option if we do not go with Motorola? Ward replied 
there are options, but we are trying to maximize the cost. You could say we are not going to 
sign up for this at all, we are just going to do a fix/break sort of contract with you and ride 
this out. But then your whole network slowly deteriorates over time. Then at some point you 
are going to have to make a big giant investment again. Folger explained Motorola has been 
a good partner. We placed today’s value of your system at about $300 million. There is 
some number that needs to be used and calculated to maintain a system of that value to the 
benefit of the constituents.  
 
Myers noted this is the handout we talked about this morning. There is another facet to this 
separate of Motorola, but it has to be done in conjunction with Motorola, and that is work 
MnDOT does. We are changing the connectivity path on the system. Our Finance 
Committee, from the state-level, has asked MnDOT to look into that cost. There is going to 
be a cost, we are going to have to do another component.  
 
Wilkin County asked Motorola knows it is going to cost $300 million to go someplace else. 
How does that impact their willingness to be profitable but not exorbitant? Ward replied that 
is our role. Some of the things we leverage is we look at what other states have done and we 
bring that to the table. Motorola wants to get as much money as they can, and the state wants 
to prevent giving out as much money as they can. We feel pretty confident we are going to 
be able to get them to come down on their price. Folger added what helps is if we can find 
out what their costs are, and we can determine what their margin is with their sale price, and 
together we can figure out what is a fair mark-up and margin and it should not be exorbitant. 
Hansen asked what is their proposal right now? Ward explained we are actively involved in 
those negotiations. Everything is staying the same for 2020. By the end of March, we are 
going to have a good idea that we are going to be communicating to ECN and MnDOT what 
that is going to be. Then they are going to start the process of rolling it out to everybody 
across the state to let them know by the end of July. Myers explained there have been two 
numbers Motorola presented before Tusa came on. If it did not change with the last number, 
there is an increase, we are talking about $33 million is what they had in their number. It is 
budgetary, and one of the constraints you have is we start setting our 2021 budget here 
pretty quick. So that is why we are trying to get this information. They have a timeline to be 
cognizant of. We can expect it to go up, but also that one we talked about with the MnDOT 
components that have to go lock step with this, there are some numbers and we want to get it 
out to the agencies so they know what they have to budget for.  
 
Grant County asked being that we are in bed with the state on this and we are moving 
forward with it, this competitive bidding process, this is not going to get dinged on our 
audits, as far as on the county level, as far as the cost, is that ever going to surface? Myers 
replied once they got the number from Tusa and Motorola they go through for the single-
sourcing, they have to go through admin to go through and approve that, so there is a 
process that deals with that, so it is not going to impact your audit on that one. This is a 
Motorola system, it is not inter-changeable. You can put subscribers on this system, but the 
core of this network is Motorola. This has a windows component to it on the back-end part 
of the overall system. Microsoft is continually changing that. Myers explained this is an 
exercise we do every 5 years. This is one of the most successful projects the state has ever 
done.  
 
- 6 - 
COMMUNICATIONS: (Continued) 
b. Tusa Consulting – Discussion on Motorola SUA Agreement (Continued) 
Cost Benefit Analysis: (Continued) 
Douglas County asked for the $33 million is the technology built in? Upgrades, you can 
look at equipment that is depreciating out. Myers explained part of it is software, part of it is 
hardware. Part of this agreement will be there is infrastructure that gets updated. That is one 
of the things they are trying to get a handle on, what exactly are you going to include in that 
5-year contract. Stevens County noted when he takes back his information about Emergency 
Services Board and ARMER, his fellow Commissioners always say you can bring it back, 
but the number is always going to go up. For emergencies, it is probably the way it has to 
be, but counties have to watch the bottom-line also. Folger explained we have some cost 
containment strategies and they are kind of proprietary right now. We have had half a dozen 
meetings with Motorola. We are asking them to roll up their sleeves and sharpen their 
pencils because $33 million may not be palatable. We have to find out if you are happy with 
the services and if there are more services they are throwing in for that. Wilkin County 
asked on the hardware side of it, is there an agreeable agreement reached on what the life of 
each piece is? Ward replied we have had conversations where we have talked about their 
product roadmap. There are so many pieces and components that make up the system. That 
is some of the risk Motorola does take on with that SUA. If they are using a certain widget 
in the system, and that widget is no longer being supported, it is up to them to upgrade the 
system so that way it does not impact the system. It allows the system to be sustained 
overtime. What this does is it keeps you at the current platform. As things need to be 
replaced it is being replaced. As far as the roadmap, there are some things they cannot even 
tell us on the roadmap that they do not even know, because it is a 3rd party item. It is the 3rd 
party telling them suddenly we are no longer supporting this and then Motorola has to 
scramble to find a workaround for that. They have a map to 2032 that shows the support and 
the life cycle of all the different components of the system. Folgers explained it has been a 
sticking point in the last few negotiations, that very reason is they cannot tell us, because 
they do not know when the 3rd party vendors are going to be replacing their equipment, but 
their reply back was the risk is on us for whatever price we end up. We are weighing that 
constantly when they come back with something like that, because they could go time and 
material.   
 
REPORTS: 
SECB: 
1. MnDOT/ARMER/RIC Report: (Update) 
RIC Report is available online. 
 
2. SECB: (Micah Myers) 
SECB met last Thursday. Director Walberg gave a report on the NG911 grants. There was a 9-1-
1 outage on January 9th. That is the second one in less than a year. It was the same thing, it was a 
break of a router. This impacted the Southeast part of the state. The notification process once 
again was not the best. Rice-Steele PSAP used IPAWS, so they ended up getting a crawler that 
went across TVs. It gave folks insight as to where they need to call when the 9-1-1 system was 
down. How do you get your information out to your PSAPs, and how do PSAPs get that 
information out to the general public? MnDOT gave a report that there are 3 sites left to build. 
Those 3 sites that will be the original plan. MnDOT has 335 sites. With the local enhancements 
there are 435 sites on the ARMER system right now. ECN is in the process of looking for a 
financial coordinator position to fill.  
 
 
- 7 - 
REPORTS: (Continued) 
SECB: (Continued) 
3. Finance Committee: (Micah Myers) 
Met two weeks ago. We went over the NG911 grant process. There are two components to the 
NG911 Grant: GIS and CPE. The main focus on the CPE, there was a lot of confusion as to the 
process and how this grant was going to be administered. There was believed to be a match, and 
then there was not a match. Grants workgroup will be meeting tomorrow to go over the process. 
There is a communication supposed to come out February 1st as to how the decision process, or 
how those grants are going to be administered going forward, and the funding for that will be 
made available on March 31st. One of the other things we talked about on the Finance call is 
looking at creating a standard process for administering and handling the grants. We are already 
talking about the current grant processes for this year with the SHSP/SECB grants. But, if we 
are making these changes we need to get these standards in place. There was 3 proposals that 
were approved. The rest are still under review. One of those that is under review is Central and 
Metro Region.  
 
4. Interoperability Committee: (Micah Myers) 
Met last Tuesday. STR workgroup did a field trip to Hennepin County. They looked at their 
SatCOW. There was some discussion as to how that SatCOW was acquired and whether, or 
not, that is going to fall under the governance of the STR. There was a report from one of 
Myer’s staffers who went to the ITLS course. Conventional Interoperability Plan, the 
Central had weighed in on that. There were some concerns about the statement as to 
required verses recommended, what needs to be in the consoles. Those changes were put 
into the plan. Interoperability Committee approved and that was approved at SECB. SWIC 
Stromberg is working on Interstate Interoperability Crosswalk and Best Practices Guide. 
There are counties in the southern region working with the new Iowa state system that is 
going in. Looking at how we interact with those borders. What he is looking for this 
workgroup is to have someone who is technical savvy, but also looking at a PSAP manager. 
We have two of those in our region that border other states, so we are going to reach out to 
them. The example SWIC Stromberg gave was they walked into a dispatch center on the 
Iowa side and these controls stations said ‘ARMER Do Not Touch’ and they said what are 
those. They responded they did not know. There was some recognitions for some COMLs.  
 
5. Wireless Broadband & Applications Committee: (Brandon Larson) 
Verizon hosted a meeting where they gave everyone a tour of their main offices, and discussed 
about their capabilities for assisting public safely with pre-planned and non-planned events. 
Upcoming, we have a FirstNet users meeting for anyone. It is a closed door meeting that will be 
held February 5th at St. Cloud MnDOT. There is movement forward on an RFP for a coverage 
assessment tool. Thought process initially by ECN was to have an application any agency in the 
state could put on their phone. They would activate it and then they could walk/drive around 
their community and get the data for coverage on that carrier. State has sent out a wireless 
broadband survey for everyone with a list of questions of how you are using broadband for 
work. They have only received around 100 responses, and they are hoping to get 1,000. 
 
6. Legislative Committee: (Micah Myers) 
They were looking for a chair. When the session opens up, they are going to be bringing back 
some of the changes to the 403 statute which is looking at giving DOC and Indian Affairs 
Council a seat under the board. We have these committees and a governance in place, we need 
to make sure we are participating in these. If there are decisions to be made about how our 
governance our works. We will be represented on that committee, but Myers is hoping the other 
folks that have their seats on that committee will be present to discuss the topics that are there.  
 
- 8 - 
REPORTS: (Continued) 
SECB: (Continued) 
6. Legislative Committee: (Micah Myers) (Continued) 
Myers explained when Director Wahlberg asked are there any other items we should be bringing 
forward, this is where we need from you guys, if there are things concerning communication like 
what we saw with Tusa here and looking at these costing things and how we move forward. Or, 
like the 9-1-1 outage we talked about. That was discussion Commissioner Jelinski had asked 
some questions on was the outage due to lack of funding. What recourse do we have? We need 
to get our voices there and bring that forward.  
 
7. Land Mobile Radio Committee: (Kristen Lahr) 
Met last week Tuesday. There were several plan amendments on the agenda. Cook County had 
an outdoor BDA project. Clay County had a plan amendment to add some additional radio IDs 
to their plan. Hubbard County had a plan amendment to change their connections from their 
PSAP to the ARMER system. Gold Cross/Mayo Medical transport had a plan amendment to 
officially do their name change to Mayo Clinic Ambulance and an addition of an MCC7500e, 
and a talkgroup request to add an additional four talkgroups to their participation plan. All of 
those plan amendments were approved. 
 
8. Regional Coordinator Report 
It is provided online. 
 
EMS/Hospital Workgroup: (Paul McIntyre) 
Our last hurdle was cleared up Monday. We do have access to the conference line now. They took the 
link down to get the information for the EMS/Hospital group, changing the naming. They just have to 
get that put back-up, so people can see that and sign-up for the information.   
 
Regional Leadership Group (Next Meeting July 27, 2020):  
Myers reported there was further information given on the 911 outage. ECN talked about the 
projects they are working on and their need for additional staffing. We also talked about some of the 
constraints we are having as we move stuff forward. The state is standing up and taking notice as a 
result of the DHS and other issues. There are things that are not moving as quickly. Jim Jarvis from 
the Feds gave a report. There is a slide Myers wants to present to the group. It goes with the 
discussion we are having about the ongoing maintenance. Outputs and outcomes which we 
traditionally are not measuring, but looking at what we are putting, when we talk about outputs 
what are we spending on the system and are we getting desired outcomes? Jelinski brought in a 
point to the discussion was are we telling our story. Does the general public know what your 
frontline staff and what we do on a daily basis? That is something we need to get out. There is a 
reason this stuff costs this. You need to be able to explain that. When we are looking at establishing 
priorities it talked about one of the concerns or constraints we have as we go forward we take these 
federal funds and 9-1-1 monies talking about diversion of fees. There was an acknowledgement of 
that and that we are working to make sure those do not politicians going forward. They started 
talking about the upcoming conference. They started doing the planning. The conference that for the 
last 10 years we have had here in St. Cloud has been moved to St. Paul. They were planning for 
what type of information you would like to see presented at that. Jelinski explained that Wednesday 
is Commissioners Day. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 9 - 
GENERAL DISCUSSION AND NEW BUSINESS 
Executive Committee Reports and Items: 
1. Website – ADA Issues 
Myers stated per the recommendation of this board from our last meeting, Myers spoke to 
Representative Westrom. He pointed Myers in the direction, because he did not have the answer. 
Myers went to Mn.IT and several websites and did some significant research on it. One of the 
things Myers was unable to establish is a definitive timeline that you have to be in compliance. 
There has been a couple amendments, because this stems from an Act from 1973. In 1997, the 
Federal Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility and Compliance Act was proposed 
into legislation to correct shortcomings in it. The biggest issue they have is they do not have the 
enforcement piece and they are letting the courts decide. Southern California was the first 
government entity that got taken to task on this one. What happens when they take you, you are 
not paying a suit to the plaintiff you are actually just paying the attorneys fees. For the attorneys 
this is a cash cow to them. Do we want to be made an example of, or, are we doing it because we 
have citizens that this impacts? We represent all. Disabilities, you may not have one now, but as 
Myers said at the last meeting, as we get older our eyesight is going to go and you are going to 
need these tools. We have partners in the website and we want to give them notification so we 
can set our budget and move forward saying this is a recurring cost that is coming and explain to 
them why we are doing this. There is not a definitive timeline you have to be in compliance. We 
can be challenged at any point right now. Douglas County asked has not every county been 
doing this with their own websites? Stevens County is working on it, it is a big project. Morrison 
County is redoing their website and Jelinski will guarantee we will be ADA compliant. Pope 
County did too and they are checking on that. Myers explained the City put our sites already on 
this year, and we use the same vendor to do the Board’s website. We already have a proposal 
from them. Myers would like to have the Board grant us permission to go ahead and move this 
forward and then we will reach out to the other partners to let them know this is coming, so they 
have a year. You have a couple of options. We have funding as part of our budget that can cover 
this cost to move it forward right now, or, we wait and recoup. We are looking for the ability for 
this group to give us permission to move this thing forward. Jelinski stated it is not an action 
item on our agenda, but does not know why we do not make it an action item. Jelinski looked for 
a motion. Stevens County moved the ADA website redo. Grant County stated and that motion 
includes information back to the next meeting for verification? Stevens County replied he is 
going to get ahold of the associates. We have to do it anyway. Douglas County seconded. Myers 
stated to make sure we are clear on the motion. Does this motion give us to send the letter to our 
partners agencies and wait, or are we looking at going ahead and entering into the contract? 
Stevens County’s motion is to move ahead with it now, we will pay for it out of ours and you 
will negotiate the payment from them. Jelinski added through that conversation we do need to 
let our partners know what we are doing. Mille Lacs County asked should we be doing this by 
consensus being it was not on the agenda to be approved? City of St. Cloud asked would the 
motion be to amend the agenda to include this and make it an action item? Jelinski asked do we 
simply direct Myers without a motion to move forward notifying our partners that this is the 
direction we are going and there is probably a stronger than none possibility that the March 
meeting of the Central Region we will probably moving forward with it. Myers stated this was a 
holdover, this was an action item that was asked at the last meeting and we held it over for the 
report, but the agenda does not state that so we can do that. Chair Jelinski would feel more 
comfortable doing it that way. Meeker County stated make sure it will be an action item for next 
meeting. City of St. Cloud stated it will be an action item, because we are not spending any 
money off of this now. It has to be an action item to spend money, and we are not spending 
money. Stevens County did rescind their motion. Jelinski assumed the second is rescinded at the 
same time.  
 
 
 
- 10 - 
GENERAL DISCUSSION AND NEW BUSINESS (Continued) 
Executive Committee Reports and Items: (Continued) 
2. Central Region Concerns Letter 
Myers and Jelinski met with Deputy Commissioner West last Thursday pre the SECB to discuss 
the letter of concerns. We had a really good discussion. Now what we are looking for is the 
follow-up going forward. If the process continues then it was not a good meeting. We are 
confident that our message was heard.  
 
3. Renewal of Regional Coordinator Contract 
Myers stated on an annual process we go through our Regional Coordinator Contract that the 
City of St. Cloud is contracted with the Board to deliver. One of the things we did come last 
September and ask for was the addition of Dave Theis’ services to the Regional Coordinator 
Contract. We would like to have that extend into the 2020 calendar year as long as there is 
funding. If we exceed what we have in the funding, we would bring back if we need to take it 
further. Myers pointed out from the Tusa Consulting meeting this morning there is an upgrade 
that is coming in this calendar year it is version 19 that Dave’s expertise would be. Some of the 
other members are looking at continuing to utilize his service, it has worked well. We have a 
process we put in place that process will remain the same that the O&O/User Committee look at 
the requests for his time and weigh-in on how that works. The contract value should remain the 
same unless we have something where we are using Dave’s time way more than what we have 
in the budget. And before we would do anything with that we would bring it back to the Board. 
It is not going to change anything in the current budget process right now. Pope County moved 
for the renewal of that contract. Mille Lacs County seconded. Motion passes.  
 
4. SECB Committee Appointments 
Myers reported this letter we typically send to ECN on an annual basis that reflects our 
committee appointments to the state committees. NG911 Committee just held election of Chair 
and Vice Chair and per the provisions in their Bylaw the Chair and the Vice Chair are the 
delegates to the state NG911 Committee. There are three vacancies with Al Fjerstad leaving. We 
will be looking to get those filled with our committees. This is just more of an update. Typically, 
the ones you see vacant the Board would have to approve, but you have given the RAC the 
authority to be able to approve that and report back to you in a timely fashion.  
 
5. ESB Board and Committee Attendance 2019 
Jelinski stated the attendance report is put in here every time for everybody’s information.  
 
6. MN Public Safety Communications Conference 
Myers showed the memo. This is typically the link that is provided from ECN it will be for 
conference registration. That is not active yet. Here is what we have typically done in the past. 
We are looking at reimbursing for meals that are not included in the conference. Then you have 
also the hotel rate which we do not know. There are some unknowns. We want to get this out 
because when the board meets next time the conference registration will already be open. We 
want to be able to send this out to the membership once we know those unknowns like what the 
conference rate is. It is not going to cost us anything additional out of our budget. In typical 
years, our spending is about $5-6,000. We will have the grant dollars to cover it. The other one 
we talked about is the mileage. Typically, we have in the past, if your agency provides mileage 
reimbursement we did not include it. However, this conference is going to be down in the Twin 
Cities and we did not know if you guys wanted to change that, or leave it as status quo. Benton 
County stated it is part of each county’s duty to send the Commissioners. Stevens and Pope 
Counties concurred. Myers stated then the ask for the group and we will look for this in a motion 
that we continue to do the same conference reimbursement as we have in the past. Once we get 
the information we will fill this in.  
 
- 11 - 
GENERAL DISCUSSION AND NEW BUSINESS (Continued) 
Executive Committee Reports and Items: (Continued) 
6. MN Public Safety Communications Conference (Continued) 
Myers did not think we need to put a not-to-exceed amount, because we have the funding to 
cover it. Jelinski stated it will be a contracted amount that ECN goes out to get like any other 
conference. Myers added we normally allow you your 2 representatives on this committee and 4 
members from your agency. However, prior to the conference we open it up and we give a set 
date if you do not use all of your allocation and there is someone else that wants to send more 
from their agency they would be able to. Is two weeks going to be enough time for an agency? 
Lahr thought if an agency knows that they would like to send more than a total of 6 they usually 
let Shari know and she can give them a head’s up when it gets close to that date. Myers stated 
this is one that is always somewhat challenging, that is getting the proper receipts and 
everything back for reimbursement that we will put into the grant. Myers added having your 
agency pay for the hotel, so it is just one. Myers added one of the things we looked at for the 
registration, we would take care of that so we would have one reimbursement, instead of waiting 
for the other ones. Myers has to do some exploring to see if we can do that, but we are trying to 
minimize the challenge of getting documentation for the reimbursement back. Jelinski stated we 
need to have a motion to fund the room and the applicable meals that are attached with it. 
Kandiyohi County moved. Todd County seconded. Motion passes.  
 
RAC Report & Items: (Micah Myers) 
1. SECB 2018-2019 Grant & 2018 SHSP Grant 
Myers reported the RAC did not meet in January. The SECB grant is coming up. Each 
participating region will get $25,000 for training. $875,000 for equipment. The details we 
are working on getting that. The 2019 payable 2020 SHSP grant that is coming forward now 
there is $25,000 also for training. And then there is $50,000 that 7 regions have to compete 
for equipment. So, there is not a lot of money. One of the things we are looking at doing is 
identifying our needs and setting a standard. The reason why there is so little bit of 
equipment there is, because we had turnback but a lot of that was largely due in part that it 
was training dollars and the folks could not do the training. If we are turning back money it 
is hard to go back to HSEM and say we need more. One of the things that group will be 
tasked with is putting together our grant priorities looking at what we are asking for to be 
funded in that grant and give that information to the Deputy Commissioner, so when they 
have that annual meeting he can convey what our needs are and we can look at getting more 
funding into that SHSP grant. As for our call tomorrow, we are going to be establishing 
some of the standards and doing some clarifications on the current NG911 Grant.   
 
O&O Report & Items: (Kristen Lahr) 
1.  CM Analyzer Hardware & Software Maintenance 
At our January meeting the committee discussed an opportunity to renew our software 
maintenance subscription for regional analyzer equipment. The subscription does provide 
extended warranty which covers any hardware, software or warranty defects in the equipment. 
And then also includes software updates that the company provides. As the equipment is 
available for use by all members of the region, there was some strong support by the committee 
to renew that subscription at a cost of $4,900. In the 2020 budget there is an allocation for CM 
Analyzer maintenance. So, we do have the funding available in this budget year to renew this. 
Lahr stated we are looking for approval from the board to renew the extended warranty and 
software subscription. Benton County moves. Mille Lacs County seconded. Motion carried.  
 
 
 
 
- 12 - 
GENERAL DISCUSSION AND NEW BUSINESS (Continued) 
User Report & Items: (Paul McIntyre) (Continued) 
Paul McIntyre was voted Chair and Jim Hughes the Vice Chair.  
1.  Request for Proposals – Training Provider 
Lahr explained we have come to you for approval at some 2019 meetings our training roadmap 
for the 2020 calendar year. With the change in ownership of our training provider On Target 
Training and Consulting we felt it was pertinent that we put our training out for RFP for the 
2020 calendar year to start that process over. You will find attached a draft Request for Proposal 
to provide training courses for the 2020 calendar year. Myers is forwarding the proposal onto 
legal for standard review. We are looking for approval to go ahead and publish this RFP for our 
2020 training pending legal review. Wilkin County moved. Pope County seconded. Stevens 
County asked are there a lot of vendors that do this kind of training? Lahr responded there are a 
couple that have popped up in the general Central area and across the state. On Target has 
changed hands, a new agency has taken that over. Motion carried.  
 
EMAC Report & Items (Stephanie Johnson) 
1.  Approval of Region 4 Contractor 
Johnson explained we interviewed January 13th three applicants. We received four applicants, 
one had to pull their application out due to personal reasons. We picked the top choice of 
Preferred Response who is our current contractor. First request for board approval is to approve 
the contract to be signed after it finalizes legal review. Stevens County moved. Meeker County 
seconded. Motion carried. Second, Johnson is asking for board approval to approve the Board 
Chair to sign that grant agreement once it becomes available so that our contractor can start 
services before our March ESB meeting. Kandiyohi County moved. Grant County seconded. 
Motion carried. 
 
NG-911 Report & Items: (Jason Karlgaard) 
Jason Karlgaard was elected Chair and Vice Chair was Jason Wendt of Grant County.  
 
Logger Committee Report & Items: (Brandon Larson) 
1.  2020 CMESB Budget Logger Revision 
At your last meeting you approved to allow Stearns County to join as a member of the Logger. 
We had already set our budget with the thought of 13 entities sharing the costs, and now we 
have 14 entities sharing the costs. This is a request to make a budget adjustment in the 
downward direction to just a little over $5,600/entity. Larson noted not everyone is a party to the 
logger and called out the agencies that are a party. Wright County motioned to adjust the 
contribution budget down. Stevens County seconded. Wright County asked are we charging for 
the whole year, are we pro-rating? Larson explained, Stearns County came on at the beginning 
of the year, so they are full ride. Myers noted we are in negotiation with another entity right now 
which is outside the region. If they join, we will not pro-rate the balance of the year, they will 
pay a full share. And then in 2021 we will make that adjustment if they do come on that is the 
way the process works. Motion carried.  
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
a. ECN Program Updates Newsletter 
View online.  
b. Attendance Update 
 
Myers reported our lowest is 83% and not that long ago we had some that were on the 
border. The RIC had mentioned this at the regional quarterly that it is impressive that you 
have minimal of 80% attendance. So, it is working. We have achieved what we want. We set 
a precedence and maybe we will be a model for the rest of the state.  
 
- 13 - 
OLD BUSINESS: (Continued) 
b. Attendance Update (Continued) 
 
Mille Lacs County Commissioner would like to say a big ‘Thank You’ to Al Fjerstad for his 
service to all of us in this room and what a loss it will be. It will be a huge loss for Mille 
Lacs County. As you can look at the roster he served on many committees for us. Jelinski 
added it is not only going to be a big loss for Mille Lacs County, but for this region it is 
going to be tremendous.  
 
c. Current Representative List 
View online.  
 
UPCOMING MEETINGS: 
The next meeting will be held on March 25, 2020 in the City of St. Cloud Conference Room #1.  
 
ADJOURNMENT: 
Chair Jelinski made the executive motion to adjourn the meeting and the motion was carried 
unanimously at 2:42 p.m. 
 
Minutes recorded by Shari Gieseke. 
 
 
 
 
- 1 - 
CENTRAL REGION  
EMERGENCY SERVICES BOARD (ESB) 
Wednesday, March 25, 2020 – 1:00 p.m. 
St. Cloud City Hall Conference Room #1, St. Cloud, MN 
 
Members/Alternates Present: 
1. Mike Conway – City of St. Cloud (via phone) 
2. Steve Heinen – Benton County (via phone) 
3. Erick Klepel– Big Stone County (via phone) 
4. Charlie Meyer – Douglas County (via phone) 
5. Bill LaValley – Grant County (via phone) 
6. Rollie Nissen – Kandiyohi County (via phone) 
7. Steve Schmitt, Vice Chair – Meeker County (via phone) 
8. Genny Reynolds – Mille Lacs County (via phone) 
9. Jeff Jelinski, Chair – Morrison County 
10. Gordy Wagner – Pope County (via phone) 
11. Leigh Lenzmeier – Stearns County (via phone) 
12. Robert Kopitzke – Stevens County (via phone) 
13. Gary Kneisl – Todd County (via phone) 
14. Kevin Leininger – Traverse County (via phone) 
15. Jon Kangas – Wadena County (via phone) 
16. Neal Folstad – Wilkin County (via phone) 
17. Charles Borrell – Wright County (via phone) 
 
Members/Alternates Absent: 
18. Otter Tail County 
19. Swift County 
 
Other Members/Alternates Present: 
1. Micah Myers, Chair – Regional Advisory Committee 
2. Kristen Lahr, Chair (via phone) & Brandon Larson, Vice Chair – Owners & Operators Committee 
3. Paul McIntyre, Chair – User Committee (via phone) 
4. Jason Karlgaard, Chair – Next Generation 9-1-1 Committee (via phone) 
5. Brandon Larson, Chair – Regional Logger Committee  
 
CALL TO ORDER: 
Meeting called to order by Chair Jeff Jelinski at 1:00 p.m. Quorum reached with 17 of the 19 members 
present for the whole meeting. 
 
INTRODUCTIONS: 
Introductions were conducted. 
 
APPROVAL OF AGENDA: 
Kandiyohi County moved to approve the agenda. Stevens County seconded, motion carried. 
 
COMMUNICATIONS: 
a. Coronavirus (COVID-19) 
Myers reported part of the discussion we had at the Executive Committee is how the current 
predicament we are in right now has impacted our abilities to meet as we are meeting via 
phone today. It is anticipated that the Governor in his address today will probably shut down 
the state agencies. Looking at it if we do not need to meet then we do not need to meet. Can 
we change our current process?  
 
- 2 - 
COMMUNICATIONS: (Continued) 
a. Coronavirus (COVID-19) (Continued) 
Myers asked if there are action items that come through, for example, Stevens County has to 
go through the approval process for a SOAR/CRAE. They have to convert it to a CRAE. It 
is a communication enhancement to the system they deployed. Per the SWIC, they are 
recommended, as per the standard, they need to move that forward. That would typically be 
reviewed by the Owners & Operators and then brought forth through the approval process 
and then up to the state. If there is no timeline established on that, then that is fine. But if 
there are action items that come up that need to be addressed, can we convene meetings? In 
which we do have the authority to do that, we can call a special meeting, but do it via the 
video conferencing. And looking at some of the approval processes, instead of having the 
O&O go through, can we go with the Executive Committee, or we bring it direct to the 
Board. We have to look at how we do business. We are going to do some further 
exploration, but that might be all for not if the Governor does not shut down the state, which 
we are thinking that is most likely, because there are two executive orders we are expecting 
out of his conference today. This is a game changer for us and how do we do businesses. We 
would like to get some feedback from the group.  
 
Stearns County asked is there a way we can temporarily empower an Executive Committee? 
Myers replied we do already have an Executive Committee that has representation from all 
of our committees and the board. Myers would run it through legal. Myers does not think 
there is anything in our JPA. Myers would have to look at the articles of membership. Myers 
thinks we can, but Myers will review that with legal. And if that is, we can correspond that 
out, but we could take that action today. Myers explained this was not meant to be an action 
item, but you could make an action that you empower the Executive Committee to handle the 
business on behalf of the Board. Stearns County would make such a motion. Benton County 
seconded. Myers stated we are temporarily granting the Executive Committee the power to 
move either contracts, or take care of board business, during this COVID-19 process so we 
are clear on the motion. Pope County asked how many members are on that Executive 
Committee? Myers replied there is the Chair and Vice Chair of Board and all the 
subcommittees. You have the RAC, Owners & Operators, Users, NG911, EMAC and the 
Logger. There is 8. Kandiyohi County stated our next meeting is not until June. The motion 
is in order to have you folks keep an eye on things until June. After that hopefully we will 
continue to have regular meetings. Wright County does not know if we have to meet for this. 
We can have this meeting over the phone anytime. What would be different if we were not 
having this crisis right now? We are taking any action that needs to get taken today and we 
will not meet for two months. Wright County does not know what the difference is. Myers 
gave clarification if there are any items that come up with the Committees like the O&O, 
like the example Myers gave with Stevens County. Typically, the O&O would review, then 
if it is a policy thing the RAC would review, then the recommendation would come back to 
this board. Being able that if those groups do not want to meet, because they are regular 
large groups, that the Executive Committee could do the review process and then make the 
recommendation to the board for approval going forward. Wright County replied it is acting 
a little differently now, more with the groups, not so much with our Board. Grant County 
would think anything immediate action they should be able to act on that, but when we are 
talking preliminary budgets and budgets then it should be the full Board. Myers replied that 
is the plan. City of St. Cloud stated just a quick clarification, somebody mentioned that the 
duration would be in until the June meeting. Is that okay if we can put something in there so 
that this expires at the June meeting? Stearns County does not have a problem at all, but it 
should also include some sort of mechanism if we need another short-term extension.  
 
- 3 - 
COMMUNICATIONS: (Continued) 
a. Coronavirus (COVID-19) (Continued) 
Stevens County stated we could have a conference call like this if this goes to June. City of 
St. Cloud stated it gives the Executive Committee the power they need between now and the 
next board meeting, and at June if we need to extend it we can do this again to re-up it. 
Wright County asked so we are still going to have our June meeting just as we would, either 
if this was over it would be up in St. Cloud, or if not, it would be over the phone, correct? 
Chair Jelinski replied by all indications we will have our June 10th meeting. Wilkin County 
asked what is the motion? Myers replied the motion will state that the Executive Committee 
will handle ESB business that is normally handled by the lower committees. If there is a 
requirement to call the board we will do a special meetings to finalize that business. These 
powers will remain intact until the June budget meeting. Chair Jelinski asked Stearns 
County if that was their motion. Stearns County replied it is now. Chair Jelinski called for 
further discussion. Role call vote: City of St. Cloud – yes; Benton – yes; Big Stone – yes; 
Douglas – yes; Grant – yes; Kandiyohi – yes; Meeker – yes; Mille Lacs – yes; Morrison – 
yes; Pope – yes; Stearns – yes; Stevens – yes; Todd – yes; Traverse – yes; Wadena – yes; 
Wilkin – yes; Wright – Aye; RAC – yes; O&O – Aye; Users – Aye; NG911 – Aye; Logger – 
Aye. Motion passes.  
 
b. Aging Eyes Initiative 
Myers stated if anyone wants to attend, as of Friday, this thing is still on. It will be hosted in 
Alexandria on Thursday, April 9th. It is basically a seminar on giving information and 
assisting folks as they are having visual impairments. Myers threw this out when we were 
looking at the website ADA compliance. This is some of the things that would be discussed 
like how do you access tools online. They also give a kit. It has a value of $200 for folks that 
want to participate. This is just informational just showing you that this is becoming more of 
a real thing here as we start looking at the visual impairments.  
 
REPORTS: 
SECB: 
a.   SECB: 
 
No Report.  
 
 
GENERAL DISCUSSION AND NEW BUSINESS 
Executive Committee Reports and Items: 
1. Website – ADA Issues 
Myers stated per the Board’s direction, this is a draft that was put together by staff. This will be 
going out with the folks on their website billing. One of things we will have to make note of is 
that we are going to still have to do a budget meeting with that group, and that can be held via 
Teams or WebEx to discuss the changes we are implementing with our website. 
 
2. COMU Renewal for Scott MacKissock (Action Required) 
Lahr reported at the Executive Committee we reviewed a renewal packet for Scott MacKissock. 
He is a COML for Morrison County. Normally the O&O Committee does review based on all 
renewals and new applications for COMU. However, the O&O Committee did not meet in 
March and we did cancel our April meeting in anticipation for the Public Safety Conference 
which also is now cancelled. The Executive Committee did review his paperwork and found it 
complete. We are looking for a motion to approve his application for renewal and move that one 
to the COMU Workgroup at the SECB level. Kandiyohi County motioned. Wright County 
seconded. Chair Jelinski asked is there anyone against this motion? If not this motion passes.  
 
- 4 - 
GENERAL DISCUSSION AND NEW BUSINESS (Continued) 
Executive Committee Reports and Items: (Continued) 
3. Training Provider RFP (Action Required) 
Myers reported in your packet you will see the two submittals for our RFP for training services 
for the Central Region. After review from the Executive Committee at our last meeting, On 
Target Training (OTTC) is who we are making a recommendation to this Board for approval 
based on its thoroughness and price point. They were pretty comparable. On Target provided an 
additional training that we would have had to go out separately for if we had chosen the 
Preferred Response. All the items that we asked for, On Target had submitted. That is our 
recommendation to the Board. Pope County moved to approve the contract with OTTC. Grant 
County seconded. Chair Jelinski asked for any further discussion. Jelinski asked is there anyone 
against this motion? If there is no one against this motion this motion passes.  
 
4. Training Provider Contract (Action Required) 
Myers reported this contract has been submitted and reviewed by legal. Legal did have one 
change. It is on page #2 in the Indemnification section, which is simply adding “defend and” 
between indemnify and hold. This revision was sent back to the vendor. Vendor was okay with 
that. This has had the legal review, so Myers would ask the board to approve the On Target 
Training contract as presented. Wilkin County approved. Meeker County seconded. Chair 
Jelinski asked is there any further discussion on this? Jelinski asked is there anyone against this 
motion? Hearing no one, this motion will pass.  
 
5. SUA Cost Allocations 
Myers stated of this you will see all the regions contribution. You will see the membership of 
the Central Region and their allocation. If you did not add anything from your SUA contract last 
year to this year these numbers should be the same as this was flat-lined. Next year is where we 
will see the jump depending on how the negotiations go with Motorola. You will be receiving a 
bill from MnDOT for the dollar amount that is associated to your county. 
 
6. SECB Committee Appointments 
Myers reported in your packet you will see the recently appointed. We had a separation on 
the NG911 which is vacant. Then we had the point of contact for the grants, and the grants 
workgroup were some of the noteworthy changes. This is just more for information as the 
RAC goes through and does the approvals and then reports back to this group.   
 
Additional Agenda Items 
None.  
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
 
UPCOMING MEETINGS: 
The next meeting will be held on June 10, 2020 in the City of St. Cloud Conference Room #1.  
 
ADJOURNMENT: 
Traverse County made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Meeker County seconded. Chair Jelinski stated 
if there was no one against this motion then this motion passes at 1:29 p.m. 
 
Minutes recorded by Shari Gieseke. 
 
Due to the CDC’s guidelines during the Coronavirus pandemic, Central Region meetings may be 
conducted under Minnesota Statute 13D.021 – Meetings by Telephone or Other Electronic Means. 
1
Micah Myers
From:
Stromberg, James (DPS) <james.stromberg@state.mn.us>
Sent:
Monday, June 1, 2020 8:42 PM
To:
Dave Olson; Mike Keyport; Micah Myers; Erik Wallen; tim.mohr@blueearthcountymn.gov; Robert 
Shogren; Dave Pike
Cc:
Dewey Johnson; tfredrick@mn-mesb.org; Bruning, Marcus (DPS); Tait, Steven (DPS); Lahr, Kristen; 
Keith Ruffing; Wahlberg, Dana (DPS); Clark, Cathy (DPS)
Subject:
Regional Notification Form
Attachments:
MN Duty Officer Communication Resources Reference Form -- 2019-05-23.pdf
The Sender "Stromberg, James (DPS)" is external to the St. Cloud email system.  Use caution when replying 
and opening attachments/hyperlinks.  St. Cloud IT Dept. 
RAC Chairs, 
 
Many of you were around in 2017 when ECN partnered with the Minnesota Duty Officer to update the process for 
obtaining communications assistance.  The plan was should anyone need communications personnel, STR equipment, or 
communications knowledge and they didn’t know who to call they could be connected with someone in the applicable 
region by way of the Minnesota Duty Officer.  The calling list is nearing a year old and needs freshening.  Will you please 
review and let me know of any changes.  Also, the process may evolve and mature a bit as it relates to the MN Duty 
Officer but be assured that any major changes will include regional input.  However the process changes, it is still helpful 
to update the list.  You can email your updates directly to me.   
 
Let your RIC or I know if you have any questions.  Thank you! 
 
Jim Stromberg 
Statewide Interoperability Coordinator / ARMER Program Manager 
State of Minnesota, Department of Public Safety, Division of Emergency Communication Networks 
445 Minnesota Street, Suite 1725, Saint Paul, Minnesota 55101 
651‐201‐7557 
James.Stromberg@state.mn.us 
Emergency Communication Networks 
Statewide Emergency Communications Board 
 
Minnesota Duty Officer 
Guidelines and Contact Information for 
Communications Resources 
 
May 23, 2019 
The Minnesota Department of Public Safety division of Emergency Communication Networks 
(ECN), the Statewide Emergency Communications Board (SECB), and regional Emergency 
Communications/Services Boards (ECB/ESB) support communication resources for large-scale 
and emergency events.  These resources include equipment, personnel, knowledge, and services 
and are available both as a formal component of the Incident Command System (ICS) or outside 
of ICS. 
 
Communication resources may be requested through the Minnesota Duty Officer.  These 
resources include: 
 
Communications Equipment (Strategic Technology Reserve) 
• Cache Radios (ARMER, 
VHF, & UHF) 
• Transportable Towers and 
Repeaters 
• Gateways 
• Communication Vehicles 
 
Communications Personnel (ICS Personnel, Teams, & Subject Matter Experts) 
• Communication Leaders 
(COML) 
• Communication Technicians 
(COMT) 
• Incident Communication 
Center Managers (INCM) 
• Incident Tactical Dispatchers 
(INTD) 
• Radio Operators (RADO) 
• Auxiliary Emergency 
Communication Specialists 
(AECS) 
• Communications Response 
Task Forces (CRTF) 
• Telecommunicator 
Emergency Response 
Taskforces (TERT) 
 
Communications Knowledge and Services (Guidance & Support) 
• ARMER Radio Resources 
• Amateur Radio Resources 
• Non-ARMER Radio 
Resources
Process 
The Duty Officer should convey requests for communication resources to the appropriate 
persons listed on the following pages.  The Minnesota Duty Officer should follow these steps: 
1. Determine the general nature of the request.   
2. Identify the location of the need. 
3. Determine if this is an immediate need or future need.  Routine requests that come in 
more than 24 hours in advance and after 10PM should be held until 8AM. 
4. Request name and contact information (e.g. telephone number, dispatcher’s telephone 
number, radio talkgroup being used) from the caller and advise that someone will be 
in touch. 
5. Consult the lists on the following pages to identify the correct ECB/ESB region for 
the county in need. 
Minnesota Duty Officer 
Guidelines and Contact Information for 
Communications Resources 
 
May 23, 2019 
6. Attempt to contact a representative from that region based on the first, second, and 
third contact names and contact methods. 
7. For requests of the following nature, contact a state representative: 
• All requests not specific to a region 
• Multi-Region requests 
• State-specific requests 
• Non-response by a region 
• Interstate / EMAC Requests 
8. For requests of the following nature, contact a Metro Region representative: 
• Requests specifically for the Metro Region’s Communications Response 
Taskforce (CRTF). 
• Interstate / EMAC Requests 
 
Questions regarding this process should be directed to the Statewide Interoperability 
Coordinator, Jim Stromberg (contact info listed under the state section below). 
 
 
 
 
 
Minnesota Duty Officer 
Guidelines and Contact Information for 
Communications Resources 
 
May 23, 2019 
NORTHWEST REGION 
Counties Served:
Becker 
Beltrami 
Clay 
Clearwater 
Hubbard 
Kittson 
Lake of the Woods 
Mahnomen 
Marshall 
Norman 
Pennington 
Polk 
Red Lake 
Roseau 
Contacts: 
NW Region 
Contact Name 
Best Method 
Second Method 
Third Method 
First Contact 
Dave Olson 
218-681-6161 
218-416-2172 
dolson@penning
tonsheriff.org 
Second Contact 
Nicholas 
Robertson 
218 681-0943 
nicholas.robertso
n@state.mn.us 
n/a 
Third contact 
Neil Dolan 
218-694-6226 
Neil.dolan@co.c
learwater.mn.us 
n/a 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minnesota Duty Officer 
Guidelines and Contact Information for 
Communications Resources 
 
May 23, 2019 
NORTHEAST REGION 
Counties Served: 
Aitkin 
Carlton 
Cass 
Cook 
Crow Wing 
Itasca 
Kanabec 
Koochiching 
Lake 
Pine 
Saint Louis
Contacts: 
NE Region 
Contact Name 
Best Method 
Second Method 
Third Method 
First Contact 
St. Louis County 
PSAP 
218-625-3581 
n/a 
n/a 
Second Contact 
Dewey Johnson 
218-726-2936 
(218) 343-5760 
JohnsonD@StL
ouisCountyMN.
gov 
Third contact 
Steve Olson 
(218) 830-8835 
steve.olson@co.l
ake.mn.us 
n/a 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minnesota Duty Officer 
Guidelines and Contact Information for 
Communications Resources 
 
May 23, 2019 
CENTRAL REGION 
Counties Served: 
Benton 
Big Stone 
Douglas 
Grant 
Kandiyohi 
Meeker 
Mille Lacs 
Morrison 
Otter Tail 
Pope 
Stearns 
Stevens 
Swift 
Todd 
Traverse 
Wadena 
Wilkin 
Wright 
Contacts: 
CM Region 
Contact Name 
Best Method 
Second Method 
Third Method 
First Contact 
Al Fjerstad 
320-983-8288 
612-916-5378 
Al.fjerstad@co.
mille-
lacs.mn.us 
Second Contact 
Kristen Lahr 
320-259-3727 
320-290-9151 
Kristen.lahr@c
o.stearns.mn.us 
Third contact 
Brandon Larson 
320-650-3304 
320-828-6685 
Brandon.larson
@ci.stcloud.mn.
us 
 
 
 
 
 
Minnesota Duty Officer 
Guidelines and Contact Information for 
Communications Resources 
 
May 23, 2019 
METRO REGION 
Counties Served: 
Anoka 
Carver 
Chisago 
Dakota 
Hennepin 
Isanti 
Scott 
Sherburne 
Ramsey 
Washington 
Contacts: 
ME Region 
Contact Name 
Best Method 
Second Method 
Third Method 
First Contact 
Tracey Fredrick 
651-643-8398 
tfredrick@mn-
mesb.org 
 
Second 
Contact 
Don Smiley 
651-775-8714 
don.smiley@co.r
amsey.mn.us 
n/a 
Third contact 
Mark 
Vandenberghe 
612-716-7843 
MVandenberghe
@edenprairie.or
g 
n/a 
 
All Interstate / EMAC Requests should also go to the Metro Region 
 
The Metro Region Communications Response Taskforce (CRTF) is available for statewide 
response and provides communications, communications planning, technical support and 
documentation support in the field, the command post, the EOC, or the PSAP. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minnesota Duty Officer 
Guidelines and Contact Information for 
Communications Resources 
 
May 23, 2019 
SOUTHWEST REGION 
Counties Served: 
Chippewa 
Cottonwood 
Jackson 
Lac Qui Parle 
Lincoln 
Lyon 
Murray 
Nobles 
Pipestone 
Redwood 
Renville 
Rock 
Yellow Medicine 
Contacts: 
SW Region 
Contact Name 
Best Method 
Second Method 
Third Method 
First Contact 
Lyon County 
Sheriff’s Office 
507-537-7666 
n/a 
n/a 
Second Contact 
Eric Wallin 
507-537-7666 
507-829-4473 
ericwallen@co.l
yon.mn.us 
Third contact 
Bill Flaten 
320-564-5896 
320-305-9796 
Bill.flaten@co.y
m.mn.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minnesota Duty Officer 
Guidelines and Contact Information for 
Communications Resources 
 
May 23, 2019 
SOUTH CENTRAL REGION 
Counties Served: 
Blue Earth 
Brown 
Faribault 
Le Sueur 
Martin 
McLeod 
Nicollet 
Sibley 
Waseca 
Watonwan 
Contacts: 
SR Region 
Contact Name 
Best Method 
Second Method 
Third Method 
First Contact 
Keith Ruffing 
507-931-1550 
507-779-4612 
keithr@saintpete
rmn.gov 
Second Contact 
Adam Krueger 
507-304-4863 
507-382-3380 
akruger@manka
tomn.gov 
Third contact 
Tim Peterson 
507-304-4863 
 
tim.peterson@bl
ueearthcountym
n.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minnesota Duty Officer 
Guidelines and Contact Information for 
Communications Resources 
 
May 23, 2019 
SOUTHEAST REGION 
Counties Served: 
Dodge 
Fillmore 
Freeborn 
Goodhue 
Houston 
Mower 
Olmsted 
Rice 
Steele 
Wabasha 
Winona 
Contacts: 
SE Region 
Contact Name 
Best Method 
Second Method 
Third Method 
First Contact 
Dave Pike 
507-437-9400 
507-438-1070 
dpike@co.mowe
r.mn.us 
Second Contact 
Mike Burton 
507-328-6800 
507-923-6599 
burton.mike@co
.olmsted.mn.us 
Third contact 
Matt Maas 
507-319-2322 
507-635-6200 
matt.mass@co.d
odge.mn.us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minnesota Duty Officer 
Guidelines and Contact Information for 
Communications Resources 
 
May 23, 2019 
STATE 
When to Contact: 
• All requests not specific to a region 
• Multi-Region requests 
• State-specific requests 
• Non-response by a region 
• Interstate / EMAC Requests 
Contacts: 
State 
Contact Name 
Best Method 
Second Method 
Third Method 
First Contact 
Jim Stromberg 
952-923-6318 
612-391-8061 
James.Stromber
g@state.mn.us 
Second Contact 
Brad Winger 
651-201-7498 
651-797-8239 
952-451-5230 
Third Contact 
John Dooley 
651-701-7099 
612-384-1755 
John.Dooley@st
ate.mn.us 
Fourth Contact 
Dana Wahlberg 
218-348-0306 
651-485-4082 
Dana.Wahlberg
@state.mn.us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minnesota Duty Officer 
Guidelines and Contact Information for 
Communications Resources 
 
May 23, 2019 
INTERSTATE and EMAC REQUESTS 
• Interstate and Emergency Management Assistance Compact (EMAC) requests should be 
directed to Homeland Security and Emergency Management (HSEM). 
• Metro Region and state contacts should be notified. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
Micah Myers
From:
Stromberg, James (DPS) <james.stromberg@state.mn.us>
Sent:
Tuesday, June 2, 2020 1:57 PM
To:
Dave Olson; Mike Keyport; Micah Myers; Erik Wallen; tim.mohr@blueearthcountymn.gov; Robert 
Shogren; Dave Pike
Cc:
Dennis Ward; Bruning, Marcus (DPS); Tait, Steven (DPS); tfredrick@mn-mesb.org
Subject:
Tusa Review of Individual Service Contracts
The Sender "Stromberg, James (DPS)" is external to the St. Cloud email system.  Use caution when replying 
and opening attachments/hyperlinks.  St. Cloud IT Dept. 
RAC Chairs, 
 
Will you please share this with your regional ARMER contacts and leadership?  Thanks.   
 
As you are aware, Tusa Consulting was hired by ECN to assist the state with ARMER System Upgrade Agreement 
decisions and negotiations.  During Tusa’s in‐person and virtual regional visits they explained that they are also willing to 
review local ARMER‐related service contracts for duplications of billing and opportunities for efficiencies.  Tusa would 
like to wrap this task and asks, if you would like them to review your contract, that you forward it to them by June 
15.  You may send them directly to Dennis Ward (dennis.ward@tusaconsulting.com) or route them through your me 
and/or your RIC. 
 
Jim Stromberg 
Statewide Interoperability Coordinator / ARMER Program Manager 
State of Minnesota, Department of Public Safety, Division of Emergency Communication Networks 
445 Minnesota Street, Suite 1725, Saint Paul, Minnesota 55101 
651‐201‐7557 
James.Stromberg@state.mn.us 
Emergency Communication Networks 
Statewide Emergency Communications Board 
 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
 
Page 1 of 2 
Thursday, April 23, 2020 
12:30 – 2:30 p.m. 
WebEx Meeting Link 
Phone: 855-282-6330 
Meeting No.: 968 448 437 
Password: Board 
 
CHAIR: Assistant Commissioner Bruce West / VICE-CHAIR: Jeff Jelinski 
MEETING LOCATION: Due to COVID-19 Pandemic and social distancing guidelines, 
this meeting will only be held by WebEx/telephone 
AGENDA 
Call to Order 
 
Approval of Agenda 
 
Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes 
• February 26, 2020 
 
Announcements 
 
Standing Committee Reports 
• Land Mobile Radio Committee ....................................................................................... Dave Thomson 
• Steering Committee ........................................................................................................ 
Irene Fernando 
• 
Interoperability Committee  ........................................................................................ Mike Wisniewski 
• Legislative and Government Affairs Committee  
............................................................... Kip Bruender 
• IPAWS Committee 
..........................................................................................................Trevor Hamdorf 
• NG911 ................................................................................................................................ Dar Pankonie 
• Wireless Broadband & Applications ....................................................................................... Dave Deal 
• Finance Committee ............................................................................................................ Micah Myers 
 
Special Reports 
• ARMER Project Status Report ..................................................................................................... Tim Lee 
• ECN Update .................................................................................................................... Dana Wahlberg 
• DPS Update ............................................................................................................. Commissioner West 
 
Old Business 
 
New Business 
• CentraCare Full Participation Plan ........................................................................ Dave Thomson 
• Hennepin County Request to connect an Asset Management System to ARMER . Dave Thomson 
• Motorola Solution’s response to Minnesota’s inter-zone patching concern ......... Dave Thomson 
• Sanford Health ARMER network transport change ............................................... Dave Thomson 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
 
Page 2 of 2 
• Mayo Clinic Ambulance dispatch console additions 
.............................................. Dave Thomson 
• SECB Investment Hierarchy – 2020 Grant ................................................................ Micah Myers 
 
Other Business 
 
Motion to Adjourn 
 
 
 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
 
Page 1 of 2 
Thursday, May 28, 2020 
12:30 – 2:30 p.m. 
WebEx Meeting Link 
Phone: 855-282-6330 
Meeting No.: 968 448 437 
Password: Board 
 
CHAIR: Assistant Commissioner Bruce West / VICE-CHAIR: Jeff Jelinski 
MEETING LOCATION: Due to COVID-19 Pandemic and social distancing guidelines, 
this meeting will only be held by WebEx and/or telephone. 
AGENDA 
Call to Order 
 
Approval of Agenda 
 
Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes 
• April 23, 2020 
 
Announcements 
 
Standing Committee Reports 
• Land Mobile Radio Committee ....................................................................................... Dave Thomson 
• Steering Committee ........................................................................................................ 
Irene Fernando 
• 
Interoperability Committee  ........................................................................................ Mike Wisniewski 
• Legislative and Government Affairs Committee  
............................................................... Kip Bruender 
• IPAWS Committee 
..........................................................................................................Trevor Hamdorf 
• NG911 ................................................................................................................................ Dar Pankonie 
• Wireless Broadband & Applications ....................................................................................... Dave Deal 
• Finance Committee ............................................................................................................ Micah Myers 
 
Special Reports 
• ARMER Project Status Report ..................................................................................................... Tim Lee 
• ECN Update .................................................................................................................... Dana Wahlberg 
• DPS Update ............................................................................................................. Commissioner West 
 
Old Business 
 
New Business 
• ARMER System Vendor Support Services Contract ...........................................................Tim Lee 
• Request that certain items from LMRC not move to SECB .................................... Dave Thomson 
• SECB Standard GOV-2 (1.5.0) ................................................................................ 
Irene Fernando 
• M Health Fairview 9-1-1 Participation Plan....................................................... Darlene Pankonie 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
 
Page 2 of 2 
 
Other Business 
 
Adjourn 
 
 
 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
FINANCE COMMITTEE 
Finance Committee 
Page 1 
 
April 9, 2020 
9:00 – 11:00 a.m. 
Phone: 855-282-6330 
Join Webex meeting  
Meeting number: 963 415 027 
Meeting password: Finance 
 
CHAIR: Micah Myers / VICE-CHAIR: Jack Swanson 
MEETING LOCATION:  WebEx 
 
AGENDA 
Call to Order 
 
Approval of Agenda 
 
Approval of Previous Meeting’s Minutes 
• March 12, 2020 
 
Announcements 
 
Standing Committee Reports 
• Grants Workgroup Grants Hierarchy ....................................................................... Myers 
 
Special Reports 
 
Old Business 
• Updates to ECN Grants Website 
.............................................................................. Myers 
• 9-1-1 CPE Grant Applications/Awards ..................................................................... Myers 
• 9-1-1 GIS Grant (Status)  ......................................................................................... Myers 
 
New Business 
• Central region award letter ..................................................................................... Myers 
• Northeast region award letter ................................................................................ Myers 
• Carlton County grant evaluation ............................................................................. Myers 
• Cass County grant evaluation .................................................................................. Myers 
• Cook County grant evaluation ................................................................................. Myers 
• Douglas County grant evaluation ............................................................................ Myers 
• Grant County grant evaluation ................................................................................ Myers 
• Kandiyohi County grant evaluation ......................................................................... Myers 
• Lake County grant evaluation 
.................................................................................. Myers 
• Otter Tail County grant evaluation .......................................................................... Myers 
• Pope County grant evaluation ................................................................................. Myers 
• Stevens County grant evaluation 
............................................................................. Myers 
• Swift County grant evaluation ................................................................................. Myers 
• Todd County grant evaluation ................................................................................. Myers 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
FINANCE COMMITTEE 
Finance Committee 
Page 2 
 
• Wadena County grant evaluation 
............................................................................ Myers 
• Wilkin County grant evaluation ............................................................................... Myers 
 
Other Business 
 
Motion to Adjourn 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
FINANCE COMMITTEE 
Finance Committee 
Page 1 of 1 
 
May 14, 2020 
9:00 – 11:00 a.m. 
Join WebEx meeting  
 
Phone: 855-282-6330 
Meeting Number: 963 415 027 
Meeting Password: Finance 
 
CHAIR: Micah Myers / VICE-CHAIR: Jack Swanson 
MEETING LOCATION: WebEx/telephone 
 
AGENDA 
Call to Order 
 
Approval of Agenda 
 
Approval of Previous Meeting’s Minutes 
• April 9, 2020 
 
Announcements 
 
Standing Committee Reports 
• Grants Workgroup................................................................................................... Myers 
 
Special Reports 
• Update from Tusa Consulting ............................................. 
Jim Stromberg & Dennis Ward 
 
Old Business 
 
New Business 
• Tentative ARMER System Upgrade Agreement ..................................................... Tim Lee 
 
Other Business 
 
Motion to Adjourn 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
INTEROPERABILITY COMMITTEE 
Interoperability Committee 
Page 1 of 2 
 
Tuesday, March 19, 2020 
1:00 – 3:00 p.m. 
Join WebEx meeting 
Phone Number: 855-282-6330 
Meeting Number: 966 721 885 
Meeting Password: Interop 
 
CHAIR:  Michael Wisniewski / VICE CHAIR: Tim Boyer 
MEETING LOCATION: Due to COVID-19 Pandemic and social distancing guidelines,  
this meeting will only be held by WebEx/telephone 
 
AGENDA 
Call to Order 
 
Approval of Agenda 
 
Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes 
• January 21, 2020 
 
Announcements 
Standing Committee Reports 
• Strategic Technology Reserve Workgroup ........................................................... Mike Henrion 
• Communications Unit Workgroup ....................................................................... Dan Anderson 
• EMS & Hospital Workgroup .................................................................................. Paul McIntyre 
 
Special Reports 
• NG911 Program Report ................................................................................... Dan Craigie 
• ARMER Program Report ............................................................................. Jim Stromberg 
• Wireless Broadband and Applications Report ............................................ Melinda Miller 
• IPAWS Program Report .................................................................................. John Dooley 
• FEMA RECCWG 
..................................................................................................... Jim Stromberg 
 
Old Business 
 
New Business 
• Donald Smiley INCM Recognition Request  ......................................................... Dan Anderson 
• Kristyn Warnke INTD Recognition Request  ........................................................ Dan Anderson 
• Clayton Bartholow AECS Recognition Request  ................................................... Dan Anderson 
• COMU Renewals .................................................................................................. Dan Anderson 
o Chad Steffen COML Renewal Request 
o Chad Steffen COMT Renewal Request 
o Marlyn Halvorson COML Renewal Request  
o Nancie Pass COML Renewal Request  
o Peter Sauter COML Renewal Request 
o Daniel Klawitter COML Renewal Request 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
INTEROPERABILITY COMMITTEE 
Interoperability Committee 
Page 2 of 2 
 
o Rodney Olson COMT Renewal Request 
o Rodney Olson COML Renewal Request 
o Robert Beem COML Renewal Request 
o Michael Ostlund COMT Renewal Request 
• Strategic Technology Reserve (STR) Financial Report ......................................... Jim Stromberg 
• NIFOG Updates .................................................................................................... Jim Stromberg 
 
Other Business 
 
Motion to Adjourn 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
WIRELESS BROADBAND & APPLICATIONS 
COMMITTEE 
Wireless Broadband & Applications 
Page 1 of 1 
 
Tuesday, May 19, 2020 
10:00 – 12:00 p.m. 
Join Meeting 
WebEx password: WBBC 
Call-in Number: 1-855-282-6330 
Meeting number: 962 540 126 
 
CHAIR: Dave Deal / VICE-CHAIR: Brandon Larson 
MEETING LOCATION: Due to COVID-19 Pandemic and social distancing guidelines, 
this meeting will only be held by WebEx/telephone 
 
AGENDA 
Call to Order 
 
Approval of Agenda 
 
Approval of Previous Meeting’s Minutes 
• March 17, 2020 
 
Announcements 
• Bridge4ps App .......................................................................................................... Miller 
 
Standing Reports  
• Northwest Region ............................................................................. Zastoupil/Grafstrom 
• Northeast Region ................................................................................... Watkins/Angelos 
• Metro Region ......................................................................................... Olson/Thompson 
• Central Region 
.......................................................................................... Brandon Larson 
• Southwest Region ............................................................................................... Peterson 
• South Central Region ............................................................................... 
Buckmeier/Gray 
• Southeast Region ........................................................................................... Pike/Burton 
 
Special Reports 
• Success Stories  .................................................................................................................. Miller 
 
Old Business 
• Priorities for Televate Contract.......................................................................................... Miller 
 Survey, Carrier Evaluation Checklist and Network Requirements Categorization 
 
New Business 
• Direction of the Committee ................................................................................................. Deal 
 
Other Business 
 
Adjourn 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
LEGISLATIVE COMMITTEE 
Legislative Committee 
   
June 4, 2020 
Page 1 
 
June 4, 2020 
10:00 – 11:00 
WebEx Meeting Link 
Phone: 855-282-6330 
Meeting Number: 965 371 459 
Meeting Password: LEGC 
 
 
CHAIR: Kip Bruender / VICE CHAIR: Tom Egan 
MEETING LOCATION: Conference Call 
 
AGENDA 
 
Call to Order 
 
Approval of Agenda 
 
Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes 
• September 5, 2019 
 
Announcements 
 
Old Business 
403 Statute Update 
......................................................................................................... Dan Craigie 
Telecommunicator Certification Bill Update .................................................................. Dan Craigie 
 
New Business 
Next Steps for 403 Statute 
.............................................................................................. Dan Craigie 
 
Other Business 
 
Motion to Adjourn 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
LAND MOBILE RADIO COMMITTEE 
LMR Committee 
P a g e  | 1 
 
April 14, 2020 
1:00 – 3:00 p.m. 
WebEx Meeting Link 
 
Call-in Number: 855-282-6330 
Meeting # 967 592 680 
Password: LMRC 
Chair: Dave Thomson / Vice Chair: McIntyre 
MEETING LOCATION: Due to COVID-19 Pandemic and social distancing guidelines, 
this meeting will only be held by WebEx/telephone 
 
AGENDA 
I. 
Call to Order 
 
II. 
Approval of Agenda 
 
III. 
Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes 
March 10, 2020 
 
IV. 
Announcements 
 
V. 
Standing Committee Reports 
1. Northwest ................................................................................. Brian Zastoupil/Dave Olson 
2. Northeast ....................................................................... Tom Semmelroth/Rowan Watkins 
3. Central 
........................................................................................ Kristen Lahr/Mike Henrion 
4. Metro .......................................................................................... Nate Timm/Mike Mihelich 
5. Southwest ....................................................................................... 
Paul Johnson/Bill Flaten 
6. South Central ........................................................................... 
Terry Wesley/Darrin Haeder 
7. Southeast ............................................................................................... Dave Pike/Rich Hall 
8. Northern RIC ................................................................................................ Marcus Bruning 
9. Southern RIC ..........................................................................................................Steve Tait 
 
VI. 
Special Reports 
10. MnDOT .............................................................................................. 
Dave Klema/Jim Mohn 
11. ARMER Projects ............................................................................................. Jim Stromberg 
12. Cybersecurity Workgroup .................................................................................. Dave Klema 
13. Version Control Workgroup 
............................................................................... Dave Klema 
14. NCSWIC-SAFECOM P-25 User Needs Working Group ................................... Mike Mihelich 
15. SAFECOM-NCSWIC P-25 Compliance Assessment Program Task Force 
........ Mike Mihelich 
16. PoC-LTE Workgroup ....................................................................................... Jim Stromberg 
 
VII. 
Old Business 
17. Motorola Inter-Zone Patching Presentation ......................................................... Dan Nohr 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
LAND MOBILE RADIO COMMITTEE 
LMR Committee 
P a g e  | 2 
 
18. CentraCare Wide Area Site Access Request .................................................... Rey Freeman 
 
VIII. 
New Business 
19. Goodhue County request for radio IDs 
............................................................. 
Chad Steffen 
20. Request to approve Motorola APX Next radios for use on ARMER .................. Dave Klema 
21. Sanford Health ARMER plan amendment .................................................... Brian Zastoupil 
22. Mayo Clinic Ambulance request for additional 7500e consoles .................... Paul McIntyre 
 
IX. 
Adjourn 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
LAND MOBILE RADIO COMMITTEE 
LMR Committee 
P a g e  | 1 
 
May 12, 2020 
1:00 – 3:00 p.m. 
WebEx Meeting Link 
 
Call-in Number: 855-282-6330 
Meeting # 967 592 680 
Password: LMRC 
Chair: Dave Thomson / Vice Chair: McIntyre 
MEETING LOCATION: Due to COVID-19 Pandemic and social distancing guidelines, 
this meeting will only be held by WebEx/telephone 
 
AGENDA 
I. 
Call to Order 
 
II. 
Approval of Agenda 
 
III. 
Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes 
April 14, 2020 
 
IV. 
Announcements 
 
V. 
Standing Committee Reports 
1. Northwest ................................................................................. Brian Zastoupil/Dave Olson 
2. Northeast ....................................................................... Tom Semmelroth/Rowan Watkins 
3. Central 
........................................................................................ Kristen Lahr/Mike Henrion 
4. Metro .......................................................................................... Nate Timm/Mike Mihelich 
5. Southwest ....................................................................................... 
Paul Johnson/Bill Flaten 
6. South Central ........................................................................... 
Terry Wesley/Darrin Haeder 
7. Southeast ............................................................................................... Dave Pike/Rich Hall 
8. Northern RIC ................................................................................................ Marcus Bruning 
9. Southern RIC ..........................................................................................................Steve Tait 
 
VI. 
Special Reports 
10. MnDOT .............................................................................................. 
Dave Klema/Jim Mohn 
11. ARMER Projects ............................................................................................. Jim Stromberg 
12. Cybersecurity Workgroup .................................................................................. Dave Klema 
13. Version Control Workgroup 
............................................................................... Dave Klema 
14. NCSWIC-SAFECOM P-25 User Needs Working Group ................................... Mike Mihelich 
15. SAFECOM-NCSWIC P-25 Compliance Assessment Program Task Force 
........ Mike Mihelich 
16. PoC-LTE Workgroup ....................................................................................... Jim Stromberg 
 
VII. 
Old Business 
 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
LAND MOBILE RADIO COMMITTEE 
LMR Committee 
P a g e  | 2 
 
VIII. 
New Business 
17. US Marshals ARMER plan amendment 
............................................................. Chris Siebert 
18. Clarifying items from LMRC not moving to SECB.......................................... Dave Thomson 
19. Blue Earth County/Mankato ARMER plan amendment .......... Darrin Haeder & Adam Gray 
20. Update from Tusa Consulting .............................................. Jim Stromberg & Dennis Ward 
21. Tentative ARMER System Upgrade Agreement 
........................................................ Tim Lee 
 
IX. 
Adjourn 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
LAND MOBILE RADIO COMMITTEE 
LMR Committee 
P a g e  | 1 
 
June 9, 2020 
1:00 – 3:00 p.m. 
WebEx Meeting Link 
 
Call-in Number: 855-282-6330 
Meeting # 967 592 680 
Password: LMRC 
Chair: Dave Thomson / Vice Chair: McIntyre 
MEETING LOCATION: Due to COVID-19 Pandemic and social distancing guidelines, 
this meeting will only be held by WebEx/telephone 
 
AGENDA 
I. 
Call to Order 
 
II. 
Approval of Agenda 
 
III. 
Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes 
May 12, 2020 
 
IV. 
Announcements 
 
V. 
Standing Committee Reports 
1. Northwest ................................................................................. Brian Zastoupil/Dave Olson 
2. Northeast ....................................................................... Tom Semmelroth/Rowan Watkins 
3. Central 
........................................................................................ Kristen Lahr/Mike Henrion 
4. Metro .......................................................................................... Nate Timm/Mike Mihelich 
5. Southwest ....................................................................................... 
Paul Johnson/Bill Flaten 
6. South Central ........................................................................... 
Terry Wesley/Darrin Haeder 
7. Southeast ............................................................................................... Dave Pike/Rich Hall 
8. Northern RIC ................................................................................................ Marcus Bruning 
9. Southern RIC ..........................................................................................................Steve Tait 
 
VI. 
Special Reports 
10. MnDOT .............................................................................................. 
Dave Klema/Jim Mohn 
11. ARMER Projects ............................................................................................. Jim Stromberg 
12. Cybersecurity Workgroup .................................................................................. Dave Klema 
13. Version Control Workgroup 
............................................................................... Dave Klema 
14. NCSWIC-SAFECOM P-25 User Needs Working Group ................................... Mike Mihelich 
15. SAFECOM-NCSWIC P-25 Compliance Assessment Program Task Force 
........ Mike Mihelich 
16. PoC-LTE Workgroup ....................................................................................... Jim Stromberg 
 
VII. 
Old Business 
 
STATEWIDE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS BOARD 
LAND MOBILE RADIO COMMITTEE 
LMR Committee 
P a g e  | 2 
 
VIII. 
New Business 
17. Lake of the Woods County ARMER Plan amendment request 
..................... Brian Zastoupil 
18. Greater Northwest EMS ARMER Plan amendment request 
......................... Brian Zastoupil 
19. MnDOT Vulnerability Scan Plan ......................................................................... Dave Klema 
20. Edina Fire Department request .................................................................... 
Tracey Fredrick 
21. Carver County ARMER Plan amendment request ............................................ Peter Sauter 
22. Lyon County ARMER Plan amendment 
............................................................ Paul Johnson 
 
IX. 
Adjourn 
 
 
Assistant Commissioner West 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                         April 23, 2020 
Chairman Statewide Emergency Communications Board 
Minnesota Department of Public Safety  
444 Cedar Street 
Saint Paul, MN  55101 
 
RE:  2021 Motorola SUAII Support Service 
 
Dear Asst. Commissioner West: 
 
In response to standard 4.12.0, MnDOT is submitting the calendar year 2021 Motorola System Software 
Upgrade Agreement (SUAII) cost and agency cost shares.  
 
A new SUA II contract has been negotiated with Motorola. The proposed contract with Motorola has a five year 
term covering calendar years 2021-2025 with a total cost of $31.7M.  
 
The Motorola System Upgrade Agreement (SUA II) contract provides for: 
• 
One on site dedicated field service technician 
• 
Technical Support Services 
• 
Security Update Services  
• 
SUA II System Software Subscription Agreement. This provides all Software and Hardware as 
required per contract for upgrades and life cycle replacement, and professional services 
required for both software and hardware implementation  
 
A breakdown of the agency costs is attached. The attached breakdown provides the costs for the full 5 year term 
of the contract. These cost are subject to change if an agency adds or removes equipment to/from the Motorola 
system.  
 
I’m seeking Board approval for MnDOT to enter into the SUAII contract with Motorola and approving that 
MnDOT bill the local agencies annually for their shares of the cost.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
Tim Lee, Director 
Office of Statewide Radio Communications 
 
Cc. 
Irene Fernando, Chair Steering Committee 
 
Micah Myers, Chair Finance Committee 
 
Dave Thompson, Chair Land Mobile Radio Committee 
 
Dana Wahlberg, DPS-ECN 
 
ARMER FIVE YEAR SERVICES AND SUA II PRICING 
Support Services Brief Description of Services
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025 Five Year Total
Technical Support
Technical Support is available 7 days a week, 24 hours 
a day, as defined in Section X. The Motorola System 
Support Center's staff will work with your local service 
organization or technicians to handle questions 
related to your Motorola 2-way communications 
system. If the problem is beyond the scope of the 
SSC's staff, they will contact key personnel who are 
involved with the design, development, and 
manufacture of your communication products for 
resolution.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Technical Support
$148,759.00
$158,040.00
$167,490.00
$177,135.00
$186,964.00
$838,388.00
Dedicated FSO
Motorola will provide one dedicated field service 
technician, who is specifically trained and qualified to 
support the MN Metro/ARMER Radio System.  The 
assigned technician will expend his/her full 40-hour 
workweek performing corrective maintenance on 
appropriate project work assigned as agreed to by 
Motorola and the System Owners with direction from 
the MN Metro/ARMER System Administrator.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Dedicated FSO 
$235,286.00
$239,992.00
$244,791.00
$249,700.00
$254,689.00
$1,224,458.00
Security Update Service
Security Update Service provides updates of the latest 
anti-virus definition, intrusion signature files and OS 
Patches that have been pre-tested on a Motorola test 
system to ensure they do not interfere with radio 
system functionality.  Pre-tested updates will be made 
available as necessary, however, an outbreak of 
malicious code that is deemed a significant threat to 
the Astro 25 radio network will cause a priority test 
cycle to occur which will release anti-virus definition 
updates in a shorter cycle. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total Security Update Service 
$61,072.00
$62,904.00
$64,791.00
$66,735.00
$68,737.00
$324,239.00
Services Total
$445,117.00
$460,936.00
$477,072.00
$493,570.00
$510,390.00
$2,387,085.00
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUA II
Includes All Software and Hardware as required per 
contract for upgrades and life cycle replacement, and 
professional services required for both software and 
hardware implementation. 
SUA II Total 
$5,793,155.00
$5,826,843.00
$5,861,542.00
$5,897,282.00
$5,934,093.00
$29,312,915.00
 
Annual Contract Totals
$6,238,272.00 $6,287,779.00
$6,338,614.00
$6,390,852.00 $6,444,483.00
$31,700,000.00
*(From existing contract) Motorola will invoice the 
State on a semi- annual basis (one invoice in advance 
in January and one invoice in July of each year) and 
payment is due within thirty (30) days of the invoice 
date. 
*Pricing  Based Upon Five Year Contract
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Not a firm offer for sale till fully approved via MSI internal approval process and subject to change
*Pricing Validity Based Upon Contract Execution 
 by November 
20, 2020
 
 
 
 
*Price Based Upon Scope As Above Any Changes Would Adjust Pricing Of All Items 
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for 
Calendar year 
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
$6,287,779.00
$6,338,614.00
$6,390,852.00
$6,444,483.00
These costrs are based on the system configuration as of April 2020. Subject to change if you add or remove equipment.
 MESB
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
MESB
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Metro Transit
$35,273.63
$35,481.12
$35,751.58
$36,029.53
$36,314.90
HCMC
$8,900.16
$8,952.52
$9,020.76
$9,090.89
$9,162.90
MRCC East
$6,260.47
$6,297.30
$6,345.30
$6,394.63
$6,445.28
Edina
$4,173.65
$4,198.20
$4,230.20
$4,263.09
$4,296.85
MAC
$6,587.50
$6,626.25
$6,676.76
$6,728.67
$6,781.96
Ridgeview
$5,053.55
$5,083.27
$5,122.02
$5,161.84
$5,202.72
St Louis Park
$4,173.65
$4,198.20
$4,230.20
$4,263.09
$4,296.85
Bloomington
$5,606.41
$5,639.39
$5,682.38
$5,726.56
$5,771.91
Eden Prairie
$18,680.23
$18,790.11
$18,933.34
$19,080.53
$19,231.66
U of M
$5,933.44
$5,968.34
$6,013.84
$6,060.59
$6,108.60
Anoka County
$87,609.94
$88,125.28
$88,797.04
$89,487.38
$90,196.16
Carver County
$30,494.32
$30,673.69
$30,907.51
$31,147.80
$31,394.50
Chisago County
$59,756.78
$60,108.28
$60,566.47
$61,037.34
$61,520.79
Dakota County
$100,201.77
$100,791.18
$101,559.49
$102,349.04
$103,159.70
Hennepin County
$284,852.76
$286,528.34
$288,712.48
$290,957.03
$293,261.56
Isanti County
$9,956.04
$10,014.61
$10,090.94
$10,169.39
$10,249.94
Ramsey County
$118,088.12
$118,782.75
$119,688.20
$120,618.70
$121,574.06
Scott County
$60,660.14
$61,016.96
$61,482.08
$61,960.06
$62,450.81
Sherburne County
$29,615.89
$29,790.09
$30,017.18
$30,250.54
$30,490.14
Washington County
$117,299.15
$117,989.13
$118,888.54
$119,812.81
$120,761.79
Minneapolis
$78,972.27
$79,436.81
$80,042.34
$80,664.62
$81,303.52
Total
$1,078,149.85
$1,084,491.80
$1,092,758.65
$1,101,254.12
$1,109,976.63
State ( Includes any SW users)
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
ARMER Infrastructure (MnDOT)
$4,144,534.09
$4,181,725.21
$4,216,506.21
$4,252,246.22
$4,288,938.35
MnDOT
$12,598.67
$12,672.78
$12,769.38
$12,868.65
$12,970.58
State Patrol
$54,857.21
$55,179.90
$55,600.52
$56,032.78
$56,476.59
DOC 
$90,223.23
$90,753.95
$91,445.74
$92,156.68
$92,886.60
MSOP
$16,643.26
$16,741.16
$16,868.78
$16,999.92
$17,134.57
North Memorial
$8,900.16
$8,952.52
$9,020.76
$9,090.89
$9,162.90
Allina(Lakeview EMS, New River Ambulance)
$14,179.55
$14,262.96
$14,371.68
$14,483.41
$14,598.13
Mayo/Gold Cross
$15,261.82
$15,351.60
$15,468.62
$15,588.88
$15,712.35
Sanford
$7,467.40
$7,511.32
$7,568.58
$7,627.42
$7,687.83
Total
$4,364,665.40
$4,403,151.38
$4,439,620.27
$4,477,094.85
$4,515,567.90
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for 
Calendar year 
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
$6,287,779.00
$6,338,614.00
$6,390,852.00
$6,444,483.00
These costrs are based on the system configuration as of April 2020. Subject to change if you add or remove equipment.
Central MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
CM Regional Equipment
$3,846.62
$3,869.25
$3,898.74
$3,929.05
$3,960.17
St Cloud
$20,387.23
$20,507.15
$20,663.47
$20,824.12
$20,989.05
Stearns County
$56,109.60
$56,439.65
$56,869.88
$57,312.01
$57,765.95
Benton County
$5,003.68
$5,033.12
$5,071.48
$5,110.91
$5,151.39
Wright County
$32,456.49
$32,647.41
$32,896.27
$33,152.02
$33,414.60
Kandiyohi County
$18,278.41
$18,385.92
$18,526.08
$18,670.10
$18,817.98
Meeker County
$14,003.57
$14,085.94
$14,193.32
$14,303.66
$14,416.95
Grant County
$3,997.67
$4,021.18
$4,051.84
$4,083.34
$4,115.68
Douglas County
$10,258.14
$10,318.48
$10,397.14
$10,477.97
$10,560.96
Stevens County
$3,972.74
$3,996.11
$4,026.57
$4,057.87
$4,090.01
Pope County
$4,274.84
$4,299.98
$4,332.76
$4,366.44
$4,401.03
Wadena County
$3,293.75
$3,313.12
$3,338.38
$3,364.33
$3,390.98
Otter Tail County
$22,324.47
$22,455.79
$22,626.96
$22,802.87
$22,983.48
Morrison County 
$12,343.50
$12,416.10
$12,510.75
$12,608.01
$12,707.87
Mille Lacs County
$11,589.72
$11,657.89
$11,746.76
$11,838.08
$11,931.84
Wilkin County
$6,410.05
$6,447.76
$6,496.91
$6,547.42
$6,599.28
Traverse County
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Big Stone County
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Todd County
$4,500.68
$4,527.15
$4,561.66
$4,597.12
$4,633.54
Swift County
$6,410.05
$6,447.76
$6,496.91
$6,547.42
$6,599.28
Total
$239,461.19
$240,869.76
$242,705.86
$244,592.74
$246,530.04
South East MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Olmsted County
$28,835.71
$29,005.33
$29,226.43
$29,453.65
$29,686.93
Rochester
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Goodhue County
$40,072.00
$40,307.72
$40,614.97
$40,930.73
$41,254.92
Wabasha County
$5,154.73
$5,185.05
$5,224.58
$5,265.20
$5,306.90
Winona County
$14,204.48
$14,288.03
$14,396.95
$14,508.88
$14,623.79
Houston County
$3,620.78
$3,642.08
$3,669.84
$3,698.37
$3,727.66
Fillmore County
$4,274.84
$4,299.98
$4,332.76
$4,366.44
$4,401.03
Mower County
$12,922.76
$12,998.78
$13,097.86
$13,199.69
$13,304.24
Freeborn County
$20,614.53
$20,735.79
$20,893.86
$21,056.29
$21,223.07
Dodge County
$3,620.78
$3,642.08
$3,669.84
$3,698.37
$3,727.66
Rice County
$17,546.62
$17,649.84
$17,784.38
$17,922.64
$18,064.60
Steele County
$13,875.98
$13,957.61
$14,064.00
$14,173.34
$14,285.60
Rice/Steel Dispatch
$19,560.12
$19,675.18
$19,825.16
$19,979.29
$20,137.53
Total
$184,303.35
$185,387.47
$186,800.63
$188,252.89
$189,743.95
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for 
Calendar year 
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
$6,287,779.00
$6,338,614.00
$6,390,852.00
$6,444,483.00
These costrs are based on the system configuration as of April 2020. Subject to change if you add or remove equipment.
South Central MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Regional Radio Board
$6,838.27
$6,878.50
$6,930.93
$6,984.81
$7,040.14
McLeod County
$12,469.62
$12,542.96
$12,638.58
$12,736.83
$12,837.72
Hutchinson
$3,293.75
$3,313.12
$3,338.38
$3,364.33
$3,390.98
Sibley County
$10,357.86
$10,418.79
$10,498.21
$10,579.83
$10,663.62
Nicollet County
$5,154.73
$5,185.05
$5,224.58
$5,265.20
$5,306.90
LeSueur County
$12,318.57
$12,391.03
$12,485.48
$12,582.55
$12,682.21
Brown County
$10,709.82
$10,772.82
$10,854.94
$10,939.33
$11,025.97
Blue Earth County
$8,121.45
$8,169.23
$8,231.50
$8,295.49
$8,361.20
Watonwan Caounty
$3,293.75
$3,313.12
$3,338.38
$3,364.33
$3,390.98
Waseca County
$18,628.90
$18,738.48
$18,881.32
$19,028.11
$19,178.82
Martin County
$3,947.81
$3,971.03
$4,001.30
$4,032.41
$4,064.35
Faribault County
$4,827.70
$4,856.10
$4,893.12
$4,931.16
$4,970.22
Total
$99,962.23
$100,550.23
$101,316.71
$102,104.38
$102,913.10
South West MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
SW MN Emergency Communications Board
$27,050.98
$27,210.11
$27,417.52
$27,630.68
$27,849.52
Murray County
$3,620.78
$3,642.08
$3,669.84
$3,698.37
$3,727.66
Laq Qui Parle County
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Chippewa County
$10,030.83
$10,089.84
$10,166.75
$10,245.79
$10,326.94
Renville County
$10,030.83
$10,089.84
$10,166.75
$10,245.79
$10,326.94
Yellow Medicine County
$10,357.86
$10,418.79
$10,498.21
$10,579.83
$10,663.62
Redwood County
$4,274.84
$4,299.98
$4,332.76
$4,366.44
$4,401.03
Lincoln County
$2,740.88
$2,757.00
$2,778.02
$2,799.62
$2,821.79
Lyon County
$10,684.89
$10,747.74
$10,829.67
$10,913.86
$11,000.31
Pipestone County
$3,947.81
$3,971.03
$4,001.30
$4,032.41
$4,064.35
Cottonwood County
$3,947.81
$3,971.03
$4,001.30
$4,032.41
$4,064.35
Rock County
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Nobles County
$3,947.81
$3,971.03
$4,001.30
$4,032.41
$4,064.35
Jackson County
$6,410.05
$6,447.76
$6,496.91
$6,547.42
$6,599.28
Total
$97,045.37
$97,616.22
$98,360.32
$99,125.01
$99,910.13
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for 
Calendar year 
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
$6,287,779.00
$6,338,614.00
$6,390,852.00
$6,444,483.00
These costrs are based on the system configuration as of April 2020. Subject to change if you add or remove equipment.
North East MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Itasca County
$6,361.66
$6,399.08
$6,447.86
$6,497.99
$6,549.45
Kanabec County
$4,173.65
$4,198.20
$4,230.20
$4,263.09
$4,296.85
Pine County
$3,947.81
$3,971.03
$4,001.30
$4,032.41
$4,064.35
Cass County
$21,343.38
$21,468.93
$21,632.58
$21,800.76
$21,973.43
Crow Wing County
$17,397.04
$17,499.38
$17,632.77
$17,769.85
$17,910.60
Atkin County
$10,910.73
$10,974.91
$11,058.57
$11,144.54
$11,232.81
Koochiching County
$3,293.75
$3,313.12
$3,338.38
$3,364.33
$3,390.98
Carlton County
$5,908.51
$5,943.27
$5,988.57
$6,035.13
$6,082.93
St Louis County
$48,145.06
$48,428.26
$48,797.42
$49,176.79
$49,566.30
City of Duluth
$7,465.93
$7,509.85
$7,567.09
$7,625.92
$7,686.32
Lake County
$3,947.81
$3,971.03
$4,001.30
$4,032.41
$4,064.35
Cook County
$3,721.97
$3,743.86
$3,772.40
$3,801.73
$3,831.84
Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe
$3,620.78
$3,642.08
$3,669.84
$3,698.37
$3,727.66
Total
$140,238.08
$141,062.99
$142,138.28
$143,243.32
$144,377.88
North West MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Hubbard County
$3,947.81
$3,971.03
$4,001.30
$4,032.41
$4,064.35
Polk County 
$5,053.55
$5,083.27
$5,122.02
$5,161.84
$5,202.72
Becker County
$5,531.62
$5,564.16
$5,606.58
$5,650.16
$5,694.92
Beltrami County
$5,707.60
$5,741.18
$5,784.94
$5,829.91
$5,876.09
White Earth
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Clearwater County
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
Pennington
$3,293.75
$3,313.12
$3,338.38
$3,364.33
$3,390.98
RRRDC
$10,208.28
$10,268.33
$10,346.60
$10,427.04
$10,509.62
Clay County
$703.92
$708.06
$713.46
$719.00
$724.70
Cass County ND(Estimated)
(Under warranty)
$82,375.25
$83,003.18
$83,648.48
$84,311.02
Total
$34,446.52
$117,024.40
$117,916.45
$118,833.17
$119,774.39
 
 
 
 
Assistant Commissioner West 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                         April 23, 2020 
Chairman Statewide Emergency Communications Board 
Minnesota Department of Public Safety  
444 Cedar Street 
Saint Paul, MN  55101 
 
RE:  FY 2021 MnDOT ARMER Operations and Maintenance Budget Estimate 
 
Dear Asst. Commissioner West: 
 
In an effort to meet the following requirements the estimated Fiscal Year 2021 MnDOT ARMER System 
Backbone Maintenance and Operations Budget is attached.  
 
MnDOT – DPS DECN Contract 93882:  
 
8.2a MnDOT shall prepare and submit to DPS and the Board a proposed maintenance and repair budget plan for 
the upcoming budget year and for each fiscal year of the state biennium by May 1 of each year. The 
maintenance, repair and routine equipment replacement budget shall include normal recurring maintenance 
costs and anticipated major repair or equipment replacement costs.  
 
8.4 The budget shall identify funding levels provided for in MnDOT’s base budget, any restriction upon these 
appropriations and amounts that are not presently funded. The budget and all relevant information shall be 
presented to the Board.  
 
I will be available at the Finance Committee and Board to answer any question on the estimated budget. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Tim Lee, Director 
Office of Statewide Radio Communications 
1500 West County Road B2 
Roseville, MN 55113 
 
 
 
Cc. 
Dana Wahlberg, DPS DECN 
 
Micah Myers, Chair SECB Finance Committee 
 
Office of Statewide Radio Communications 
1500 West County Road B2 
Roseville, MN 55113 
 
April 22, 2020 
 
Fiscal Year 2021 
ARMER System Backbone Maintenance and Operations Budget  
 
The annual report for the maintenance and operations budget of the ARMER system is presented to 
the Department of Public Safety and the Statewide Radio Board through its Finance Committee by May 
1st of each year.  
The purpose of this report is to aid the Statewide Emergency Communications Board in its obligation to 
oversee the implementation of the ARMER plan and ensure that the system is built, owned, operated, 
and maintained in accordance with the ARMER plan.  
 
ARMER Backbone Maintenance and Operations Revenue Sources 
The following table summarizes the revenue sources that directly support ARMER backbone 
maintenance and operations for the next fiscal year; FY 2021 (July 1, 2020 – June 30, 2021.)  
Revenue Sources for ARMER Backbone Maintenance and Operations 
Source 
FY 2021 
911 Fee Legislative Appropriation to MnDOT OSRC 
 $                                       9,675,000.00  
Trunk Highway Funds (ARMER Appropriation to OSRC)  $                                       1,300,000.00  
Trunk Highway Funds (MnDOT Appropriation to 
OSRC)* 
 $                                       1,550,000.00  
Tower Rental Lease Receipts (Estimated) 
 $                                       1,200,000.00  
Total  $                                     13,725,000.00  
 
* Estimate of ARMER maintenance and operations expenses paid from TH Funds appropriated to 
Statewide Radio Communications.  
Note:  Minnesota Constitution dedicates Trunk Highway Funds to trunk highway purposes. The use of 
these funds for ARMER system maintenance and operations is to support MnDOT and State Patrol use 
of the ARMER system.  
 
ARMER Expenditures (FY2019) 
The last complete fiscal year, FY 2019, was used as a baseline for estimating the FY21 budget. The total 
ARMER maintenance and operation expenditure for FY2019 was $13,924,712.74. The following table 
shows the FY 2019 expenditures. 
ARMER Maintenance & Operations Expenditures for FY 2019 
Total ARMER Labor 
 $                                                               5,812,917.05  
Motorola SUAII (ARMER backbone share)* 
 $                                                               2,955,316.07  
Utilities 
 $                                                               1,269,036.77  
ARMER Facilities improvements 
 $                                                               1,367,018.30  
Parts/Repairs 
 $                                                               1,721,463.11  
Rent 
 $                                                                   360,231.00  
Office Other 
 $                                                                   438,730.43  
Total: 
 $                                                             13,924,712.74  
*The SUAII cost shown here is not the full cost of the SUAII, this is only the portion of the SUAII 
paid from the ARMER Maintenance and Operations budget.  
The following tables show a breakdown of the FY2019 labor, parts/services lines from the above table. 
This show how the maintenance services are split around the different elements that make up the 
ARMER system backbone.  
Breakdown of FY 2019 ARMER Labor Expenditures  
800 MHz system maintenance  
 $                                                               2,086,158.29  
Facilities maintenance 
 $                                                               1,640,393.12  
Microwave maintenance 
 $                                                                   757,237.77  
Radio Operation Center 
 $                                                                   572,941.97  
Partner Agency Support  
 $                                                                   325,714.71  
Overtime/Shift Diff/On call 
 $                                                                   207,577.43  
MnIT Embedded (Sys Admin) 
 $                                                                   153,459.60  
Interop maintenance 
 $                                                                     30,597.31  
FCC Licensing 
 $                                                                     38,836.86  
Total ARMER Labor 
 $                                                               5,812,917.05  
Breakdown of FY 2019 ARMER Parts/Services Expenditures  
Facilities Maintenance Parts & Services 
 $                                                                   440,466.91  
800 MHz System Parts & Services 
 $                                                                   879,571.11  
Microwave Parts & Services 
 $                                                                   401,276.98  
Interop System Parts & Services 
 $                                                                           148.11  
Total Parts/services 
 $                                                               1,721,463.11  
 
ARMER Maintenance and operations proposed budget for Fiscal Years 2021 
The FY21 proposed maintenance and operation budget is outlined in the table below. This proposed 
budget is based on experience from previous budget years, planned facilities/equipment upgrades and 
known increased operating costs. This budget plan assumes continued routine maintenance as 
previous years. If a major equipment failure were to occur with costs beyond the routine budget we 
would reevaluate and postpone any planned major facilities/equipment upgrades.   
ARMER Operations & Maintenance Estimates 
FY2021 
  
800 MHz system maintenance labor 
 $                                 1,450,000.00    
Facilities maintenance labor 
 $                                 1,500,000.00    
Microwave labor 
 $                                     850,000.00    
System Admin/ System Eng./Install Support Labor 
 $                                     650,000.00    
Radio Operation Center labor 
 $                                     580,000.00    
Partner Agency Support Labor 
 $                                     325,000.00    
Overtime/Shift Diff/On call 
 $                                     210,000.00    
MnIT Embedded (Sys Admin) 
 $                                     300,000.00    
Interop maintenance labor 
 $                                     150,000.00    
FCC Licensing 
 $                                       35,000.00    
Motorola SUAII (ARMER Backbone share) 
 $                                 3,119,136.00  * 
Utilities 
 $                                 1,300,000.00    
Facilities upgrades 
 $                                     450,000.00    
Microwave/backhaul upgrades 
 $                                     300,000.00    
Interop station replacements 
 $                                       75,000.00    
Facilities Maintenance Parts & Services 
 $                                     400,000.00    
800 MHz System Parts & Services 
 $                                     880,000.00    
Microwave Parts & Services 
 $                                     450,000.00    
Interop System Parts & Services 
 $                                         5,000.00    
Rent 
 $                                     360,000.00    
Test Equipment 
 $                                       25,000.00    
Vehicles 
 $                                       90,000.00    
Training 
 $                                       50,000.00    
Travel (In State) 
 $                                       20,000.00    
General Office Support, IT Support, Phones, etc. 
 $                                     150,000.00    
TOTAL 
 $                               13,724,136.00    
 
* FY21 ARMER Backbone Motorola SUAII cost increases beginning January 2021.  
Statewide Radio Communications ARMER Maintenance Staffing 
No major personnel changes are planned for this budget cycle, other than we are working to add a new 
embedded MnIT employee to serve as a backup and assistant to the ARMER System Administrator. To 
offset this position we will not backfill a future planned retirement in the office. 
We continue to have personnel rotations as staff retire or move on. With this change over in staff we 
will continue to have training costs to bring them up to speed on the ARMER system.  
 
Planned major improvements and equipment replacements for FY20/21 
The following equipment or facilities upgrades are planned in the FY20 budget: 
• FY20 – Replace Thief River Falls tower 
 
$600,000 
Replace older tower and install new shelter at MnDOT facilities in Thief River Falls. 
 
• FY20/21 – Upgrades to the Proteus microwave 
$600,000 
Purchase software upgrade licenses to the Proteus microwave radios. These upgrades are in 
preparation for packet backhaul requirements of the ARMER network. 
 
• FY21 – Interop system changes(if approved)  
$150,000 labor charges 
A workgroup of the LMR committee are working on a plan to update the VHF interop layer. This 
plan when approved will require addition time to relicense and reprogram the interop base 
radios. 
 
• FY21 -  Interop station replacement  
 
$75,000 
 
Replace 8CALL and 8TAC1 station at City Center. These stations were installed in 2001 and have 
become difficult to maintain.  
 
• FY20 – Upgrade the metro area multiplexers 
$450,000 
Replace the lucent multiplexers in the metro area microwave loops. Equipment is getting older 
and needs to be replaced. Replacement will support future microwave transport changes 
planned in the metro system.  
 
• FY21 – Purchase 4 radio equipment shelter  
$450,000 
Purchase new radio equipment shelters for Wolf Lake, Idington, Roosevelt and Little Fork. 
 
• FY21 – Shelter installs  
 
 
 
$150,000 
Foundations, fencing, etc. for shelter installs at Wolf Lake and Idington.  
 
 
Motorola SUAII 
 
 
SUAII Calendar years 2021-2025 
 
December 2020 is the end of the current Motorola support contract. Contract work is in process with 
Motorola for the 2021-2015 contract. The negotiated price for the 2021-2025 contract is 
$31,700,000.00. 
 
 
SUAII Impact of future contract on ARMER Backbone Maintenance and operations budget 
 
For FY 2021 the ARMER backbone maintenance and operations budget will have an estimated cost of 
$3,119,136.00 towards the Motorola SUAII contract.  
 
For FY 2022 and beyond the current ARMER backbone maintenance and operations budget can 
support $3,650,000.00 annually towards the Motorola SUAII contract. This leaves an annual funding 
gap in the MnDOT ARMER operating budget of $519,288 in FY22, $557,543 in FY23, $592,625 in FY24 
and $629,062 in FY25. MnDOT is working with DPS-ECN to cover these funding gaps.  
 
The following table shows the planned payments to Motorola. 
 
  
  
  
Motorola SUAII 
Invoice 
Payment 
Funding source 
 
FY 
2020 
 July 
2019 
Motorola SUAII Plus Contract - 
Ends December 31, 2020        
Contract Yearly Total 
$10,066,132.42   (SUAII portion 
$4,499,234.60  -  7.19 Hardware 
portion $5,566,897.82) 
 $    5,033,066.21   $ 3,952,911.76  
Pass thru Billing from Local Agencies 
 
 $ 1,080,154.45  
Pass thru billing from DPS-ECN Contract 
 
 
January 
2020 
 $    5,033,066.21   $ 3,041,387.19  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
 
 $ 1,991,679.02  
Pass thru billing from DPS-ECN Contract 
 
FY 
2021 
 July 
2020 
 $    5,033,066.21   $ 3,952,911.76  
Pass thru Billing from Local Agencies 
 
 $ 1,080,154.45  
Pass thru billing from DPS-ECN Contract (Contract  
Ends 2020) 
 
 
January 
2021 
New Motorola SUAII Contract 
$31,700,000.00 over 5 calendar 
years, 2021-2025. 
 $    3,119,136.00   $ 3,119,136.00  
MnDOT-OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
$3.12M from MnDOT OSRC 
  
  
FY21 Operating Budget 
FY 
2022 
 July 
2021 
 $    3,119,136.00   $ 2,093,737.91  
Pass thru Billing from Local Agencies  
 
 $ 1,025,398.09  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
$3.65M from MnDOT OSRC 
 
January 
2022 
 $    3,143,889.50   $ 2,624,601.91  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
FY22 Operating Budget 
 $    519,287.59      New Contract with DPS-ECN needed 
 
FY 
2023 
 July 
2022 
 $    3,143,889.50   $ 2,106,053.79  
Pass thru Billing from Local Agencies  
 
 $ 1,037,835.71  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
$3.65M from MnDOT OSRC 
 
January 
2023 
 $    3,169,307.00   $ 2,612,164.29  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
FY23 Operating Budget 
 $    557,142.71      New Contract with DPS-ECN needed 
 
FY 
2024 
 July 
2023 
 $    3,169,307.00   $ 2,122,107.79  
Pass thru Billing from Local Agencies  
 
 $ 1,047,199.21  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
$3.65M from MnDOT OSRC 
 
January 
2024 
 $    3,195,426.00   $ 2,602,800.79  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
FY24 Operating Budget 
 $    592,625.21      New Contract with DPS-ECN needed 
 
FY 
2025 
 July 
2024 
 $    3,195,426.00   $ 2,138,605.78  
Pass thru Billing from Local Agencies  
 
 $ 1,056,820.22  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
$3.65M from MnDOT OSRC 
 
January 
2025 
 $    3,222,241.50   $ 2,593,179.78  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
FY25 Operating Budget 
 $    629,061.72      New Contract with DPS-ECN needed 
 
FY 
2026 
 July 
2025 
 $    3,222,241.50   $ 2,155,544.65  
Pass thru Billing from Local Agencies  
 
 $ 1,066,696.85  
MnDOT - OSRC Operating and Maintenance Budget 
$1.1M + ?? from MnDOT-
OSRC 
 
January 
2026 
?? Contract 2026 and beyond ?? 
 ?????  
  
  
FY26 Operating Budget 
  
  
?? - 2026 Contract 
Motorola SUAII (Impact of future contract cont.) 
In addition to the cost increase to the SUAII we have also been informed that the radio site and console 
connections to the master sites will need to transition from T1 based to Ethernet. The estimated cost 
to convert the transport is $2,000,000.00.  MnDOT OSRC engineering staff is current working with 
MnIT to better define the network design and update this estimate. As we are working on the final 
network we are also working on what the implementation plan and timeline will be. Depending on the 
timeline we may be able to fit the costs into the MnDOT ARMER operations budget by delaying some 
facility upgrade plans.  
In addition the local agencies with Motorola connected equipment will need to convert their 
connections to Ethernet. Options for converting this connect will vary agency by agency. For planning 
purposes connected agencies should plan that every T1 they have for a console connection or a local 
enhancement site connection will need to purchase T1 to Ethernet converters. A pair of RAD RiCi’s per 
T1 is one option to accomplish this. We would estimate the cost of a pair of RAD RiCi’s to be about 
$4000.   
Once the details of the final network design are completed MnDOT will bring forward an ARMER 
system plan change to the Board.  
 
Long term facilities and equipment replacement plans 
We have a number of towers that are on the air for ARMER that are old towers constructed in the 
1950’s. These towers did not pass structural when we added the new ARMER equipment. But the level 
of structural deficiency was not a risk that required immediate replacement. So we have held off on 
replacement of these towers to see where we were in the ARMER construction budget to build what 
we had in the approved plan.  These towers will not fit into the ARMER construction funds and will 
need to be funded out of the Operations and Maintenance budget as it allows.  
 
 
TOWER REPLACEMENTS  
Freedhem 
Replace tower/shelter 
$600,000.00 
Thief River Falls 
Replace tower/shelter 
$600,000.00 
Viola 
Replace tower 
$600,000.00 
Kimball 
Replace tower 
$600,000.00 
Hoffman 
Replace tower 
$600,000.00 
New London 
Replace tower/shelter 
$600,000.00 
Woodland 
Replace tower/shelter 
$600,000.00 
Littlefork 
Replace tower/shelter 
$600,000.00 
Roosevelt 
Replace tower/shelter 
$600,000.00 
Crookston 
Replace Tower 
$400,000.00 
Wolf Lake 
Replace Shelter 
$140,000.00 
Indington  
Replace Shelter 
$140,000.00 
Geneva: Need to look at land purchase, new tower? 
$500,000.00 
Mapleton:  Find land and build new tower 
$500,000.00 
 
 
 
As it fits into the available maintenance budget we are also planning for: 
• Tower Painting 
• Tower inspections 
• Tower guy wire tensioning/replacement 
• Tower safety climbs 
• Tower lighting system replacements 
• HVAC replacements 
• Replacing VHF interop stations (109 stations across the state that are 20(+) years old) 
• Battery replacements 
• Replenish spares inventory 
• Replacement of older microwave radios 
o Constellation microwave links (23 hops) 
o CM6 microwave links (39 hops) 
o Megastar microwave links (27 hops) 
 
 
 
 
445 MINNESOTA STREET, SUITE 1725  •  SAINT PAUL, MINNESOTA 55101 
PHONE: 651.201.7547  •  FAX: 651.296.2665  •  TTY: 651.282.6555 
DPS.MN.GOV  •  SECB@STATE.MN.US 
 
TO: 
Allied Radio Matrix for Emergency Response (ARMER) 
System Upgrade Agreement Stakeholders 
FROM:  
Assistant Commissioner Bruce West, SECB Chair 
DATE:  
April 9, 2020 
SUBJECT: 
ARMER 2021-2025 System Upgrade Agreement (SUA) Status 
 
Minnesota’s land mobile radio system known as ARMER has been in service and has experienced 
continual growth and improvement since 2002.  To keep the ARMER system current and to provide 
predictable on-going costs, the state engaged in a System Upgrade Agreement (SUA) with ARMER’s 
manufacturer, Motorola Solutions.  The current five-year SUA contract between the state and Motorola 
expires 12/31/2020. 
While the Minnesota Department of Transportation (MnDOT) owns the ARMER network “backbone” 
and a majority of the infrastructure, many ARMER participant entities own network components 
including local subsystem infrastructure and dispatch consoles.  The Department of Public Safety 
division of Emergency Communication Networks (ECN) has primary responsibility for the majority of the 
SUA financial cost.  However, all network component owners proportionally contribute toward SUA 
costs and have a vested interest in the SUA contract. 
MnDOT and ECN have been engaged in ongoing discussions with Motorola for the 2021 – 2025 SUA.  We 
recently reached an agreement with Motorola which surpasses an offer that was previously shared with 
ARMER stakeholders.  This has been a lengthy but productive process.  We are appreciative of the input, 
guidance and support we received from our public safety partners during this process.   
To recap, in late 2017 Motorola presented an initial budgetary proposal for the next five-year SUA in the 
amount of $45M ($9M per year).  The state did not accept that offer as it included services beyond what 
Minnesota requested or required.  In early 2018, Motorola produced a revised budgetary proposal 
offering services in alignment with those of the current SUA at a cost of $33M ($6.6M per year).  While 
ECN and MnDOT furthered discussions with Motorola, MnDOT calculated the tentative five-year SUA 
cost to each network component owner based on their respective ownership proportion.  These 
preliminary SUA costs were provided to all stakeholders in 2018 for their budgetary planning purposes. 
Because ARMER is a statewide, shared system resource, it is essential that all ARMER network 
component owners are in agreement with both the level of service and the associated cost to support 
those services over the course of each Motorola contract. 
In July 2018 and again in November 2018, ECN hosted informational meetings with statewide ARMER 
stakeholders to review Motorola’s proposal.  ECN was provided with valuable feedback from individual 
stakeholders as well as from the regional Emergency Communications/Services Boards (ECB/ESBs) 
indicating Motorola’s $33M proposal for a five-year SUA lacked sufficient detail and justification for cost.  
ECN was delegated with pursuing increased detail and improved pricing. 
ECN initiated a Request for Proposal (RFP) in quarter four 2018 to secure professional and technical 
consultants to support this important initiative.  In February 2019, ECN awarded a contract to Tusa 
Consulting to assist in analyzing the scope and cost for the proposed SUA proposal.  The Tusa team met 
Page 2 
with ECN and ARMER stakeholders, as well as with MnDOT and with Motorola to become familiar with 
the current SUA, to understand the specifics of the proposed SUA, as well as to perform a detailed 
comparison and analysis between the current services and those being offered in the proposed SUA.  
During this process, Tusa met with regional ECBs/ESBs to keep information flowing and communication 
lines open, as well as to solicit their feedback.  Regular updates were provided during Land Mobile Radio 
committee meetings, as well as Statewide Emergency Communication Board (SECB) meetings. 
Thanks to the collaborative efforts of multiple partners, we have recently reached a tentative agreement 
with Motorola.  Highlights of the five-year SUA for 2021-2025 include: 
•
Cost of $31.7M for five years.  Motorola priced year one at $6,238,272.00 and reflects a 1%
increase each subsequent year.
•
Motorola will deliver two major upgrades during the five year period.
•
Motorola will discount subscriber radio pricing for the remainder of the existing subscriber 
contract (beginning late-April 2020 and expires February 1, 2022).
•
Motorola will discontinue requiring old radios be traded in when negotiating large purchases 
with pricing better than the state contract (allowing entities to donate old radios).
•
Motorola and MnDOT will continue to share system maintenance responsibilities similar to 
existing practice.
•
The contract must be fully executed by November 20, 2020.
Next steps are currently under way.  The Finance committee is expected to review the proposal and 
make a recommendation to the SECB to approve it. MnDOT will begin work with the Minnesota 
Department of Administration (MDA) to initiate a Single Source Justification RFP in accordance with 
state procurement rules.  MDA will continue to support the contract negotiation process to ensure that 
all terms and conditions are met.   
Each ARMER network infrastructure owner has a contract with MnDOT defining their financial share of 
the SUA cost.  MnDOT has prepared and distributed revised proportional stakeholder costs in 
accordance with the SUA cost. ECN will engage in a contract with MnDOT to assume financial 
responsibility for the remaining amount that exceeds MnDOT’s appropriated maintenance fund.  
Once approved by the Department of Administration, the Motorola SUA for 2021-2025 will be formally 
executed.  ECN and MnDOT have made a commitment to Motorola to make every effort to complete 
this on or before November 20, 2020. 
Thank you sincerely for your determination in working together to ensure that we have achieved a 
successful outcome to this lengthy, but critically important initiative for public safety communications in 
Minnesota.   
If you have any questions about this process please contact either Tim Lee at MnDOT (651-234-7963) or 
Jim Stromberg at ECN (651-201-7557). 
ARMER SERVICES and SUA II PRICING 
Detail/Description 
2021 
2022 
2023 
2024 
2025 
Five Year Total 
 
TECHNICAL SUPPORT 
Technical Support is available 7 days a week, 24 hours a day, as defined in Section X. The Motorola System Support Center's staff will work with your local service 
organization or technicians to handle questions related to your Motorola 2-way communications system. If the problem is beyond the scope of the SSC's staff, 
they will contact key personnel who are involved with the design, development, and manufacture of your communication products for resolution. 
Total Technical Support 
$148,759 
$158,040 
$167,490 
$177,135 
$186,964 
$838,388 
 
SERVICES 
Dedicated FSO: Motorola will provide one dedicated field service technician, who is specifically trained and qualified to support the MN Metro/ARMER Radio 
System. The assigned technician will expend his/her full 40-hour workweek performing corrective maintenance on appropriate project work assigned as agreed 
to by Motorola and the System Owners with direction from the MN Metro/ARMER System Administrator. 
Total Dedicated FSO 
$235,286 
$239,992 
$244,791 
$249,700 
$254,689 
$1,224,458 
 
Security Update Service: Security Update Service provides updates of the latest anti-virus definition, intrusion signature files and OS Patches that have been 
pre-tested on a Motorola test system to ensure they do not interfere with radio system functionality. Pre-tested updates will be made available as necessary, 
however, an outbreak of malicious code that is deemed a significant threat to the Astro 25 radio network will cause a priority test cycle to occur which will 
release anti-virus definition updates in a shorter cycle. 
Total Security Update Service 
$61,072 
$62,904 
$64,791 
$66,735 
$68,737 
$324,239 
 
Services Total 
$445,117 
$460,936 
$477,072 
$493,570.00 
$510,390 
$2,387,085 
 
SOFTWARE 
SUA II:  Includes All Software and Hardware as required per contract for upgrades and life cycle replacement, and professional services required for both software 
and hardware implementation. 
SUA II Total 
$5,793,155 
$5,826,843 
$5,861,542 
$5,897,282 
$5,934,093 
$29,312,915 
 
Annual Contract Totals 
$6,238,272 
$6,287,779.00 
$6,338,614 
$6,390,852 
$6,444,483 
$31,700,000 
 
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for Calendar year 2021
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
 MESB
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
MESB
$0.00
Metro Transit
$35,273.63
HCMC
$8,900.16
MRCC East
$6,260.47
Edina
$4,173.65
MAC
$6,587.50
Ridgeview
$5,053.55
St Louis Park
$4,173.65
Bloomington
$5,606.41
Eden Prairie
$18,680.23
U of M
$5,933.44
Anoka County
$87,609.94
Carver County
$30,494.32
Chisago County
$59,756.78
Dakota County
$100,201.77
Hennepin County
$284,852.76
Isanti County
$9,956.04
Ramsey County
$118,088.12
Scott County
$60,660.14
Washington County
$117,299.15
Minneapolis
$78,972.27
Total
$1,048,533.97
State ( Includes any SW users)
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
ARMER Infrastructure (MnDOT)
$4,144,534.09
MnDOT
$12,598.67
State Patrol
$54,857.21
DOC 
$90,223.23
MSOP
$16,643.26
North Memorial
$8,900.16
Allina(Lakeview EMS, New River Ambulance)
$14,179.55
Mayo/Gold Cross
$15,261.82
Sanford
$7,467.40
Total
$4,364,665.40
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for Calendar year 2021
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
Central MN Region
SUAII
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
CM Regional Equipment
$3,846.62
St Cloud
$20,387.23
Stearns County
$56,109.60
Benton County
$5,003.68
Sherburne County
$29,615.89
Wright County
$32,456.49
Kandiyohi County
$18,278.41
Meeker County
$14,003.57
Grant County
$3,997.67
Douglas County
$10,258.14
Stevens County
$3,972.74
Pope County
$4,274.84
Wadena County
$3,293.75
Otter Tail County
$22,324.47
Morrison County 
$12,343.50
Mille Lacs County
$11,589.72
Wilkin County
$6,410.05
Traverse County
$0.00
Big Stone County
$0.00
Todd County
$4,500.68
Swift County
$6,410.05
Total
$269,077.08
South East MN Region
SUAII
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Olmsted County
$28,835.71
Rochester
$0.00
Goodhue County
$40,072.00
Wabasha County
$5,154.73
Winona County
$14,204.48
Houston County
$3,620.78
Fillmore County
$4,274.84
Mower County
$12,922.76
Freeborn County
$20,614.53
Dodge County
$3,620.78
Rice County
$17,546.62
Steele County
$13,875.98
Rice/Steel Dispatch
$19,560.12
Total
$184,303.35
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for Calendar year 2021
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
South Central MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Regional Radio Board
$6,838.27
McLeod County
$12,469.62
Hutchinson
$3,293.75
Sibley County
$10,357.86
Nicollet County
$5,154.73
LeSueur County
$12,318.57
Brown County
$10,709.82
Blue Earth County
$8,121.45
Watonwan Caounty
$3,293.75
Waseca County
$18,628.90
Martin County
$3,947.81
Faribault County
$4,827.70
Total
$99,962.23
South West MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
SW MN Emergency Communications Board
$27,050.98
Murray County
$3,620.78
Laq Qui Parle County
$0.00
Chippewa County
$10,030.83
Renville County
$10,030.83
Yellow Medicine County
$10,357.86
Redwood County
$4,274.84
Lincoln County
$2,740.88
Lyon County
$10,684.89
Pipestone County
$3,947.81
Cottonwood County
$3,947.81
Rock County
$0.00
Nobles County
$3,947.81
Jackson County
$6,410.05
Total
$97,045.37
Motorola SUAII Cost  shares for Calendar year 2021
SUAII Contract Total: 
$6,238,272.00
North East MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Itasca County
$6,361.66
Kanabec County
$4,173.65
Pine County
$3,947.81
Cass County
$21,343.38
Crow Wing County
$17,397.04
Atkin County
$10,910.73
Koochiching County
$3,293.75
Carlton County
$5,908.51
St Louis County
$48,145.06
City of Duluth
$7,465.93
Lake County
$3,947.81
Cook County
$3,721.97
Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe
$3,620.78
Total
$140,238.08
North West MN Region
Agency
Infrastructure SUAII cost
Hubbard County
$3,947.81
Polk County 
$5,053.55
Becker County
$5,531.62
Beltrami County
$5,707.60
White Earth
$0.00
Clearwater County
$0.00
Pennington
$3,293.75
RRRDC
$10,208.28
Clay County
$703.92
Cass County ND
$0.00 Under warrenty 2021
Total
$34,446.52
$6,238,272.00
 
 
 
CENTRAL MINNESOTA EMERGENCY SERVICES BOARD 
   PHONE (320) 650 - 3320 
FAX (320) 650 - 3410
 
MEMORANDUM 
To: 
Dana Wahlberg, ECN 
From: 
Jeff Jelinski, CMESB Chair   
Subject: 
Representation on SECB Committees 
Date: 
April 9, 2020 
The Central MN RAC currently holds the following positions on the SECB Committees 
subcommittee of the Statewide Emergency Communications. We recognize the value and 
importance of these committees and we are committed to supporting its work. 
 
As chair of the Central MN ESB, I would like to designate CMNESB members listed below 
to be appointed as the representatives for CMNESB to the SECB Committees listed below. 
 
Currently the Central Region has the following representation on SECB Committees:  
Committee 
Delegate 
Alternate 
Land Mobile Radio 
Kristen Lahr 
Mike Henrion 
Legislative 
Micah Myers 
Steve Schmitt 
Steering 
Kristen Lahr 
Tina Lindquist 
Finance 
Micah Myers 
Kristen Lahr 
Grants Workgroup 
Micah Myers 
Shari Gieseke 
Regional Grants 
Coordinator/POC 
Micah Myers 
 
Interoperability  
Micah Myers 
Kristen Lahr 
Interop COMU 
Workgroup 
Chief Dean Wrobbel 
Brandon Larson 
Interop STR 
Workgroup 
Douglas County 
Brandon Larson as 
Regional Coordinator 
IPAWS 
Patrick Waletzko 
Erin Tufte 
Wireless Broadband 
& Applications 
Brandon Larson 
Mike Wisniewski 
NG911 
Jason Karlgaard 
Sarah Booker 
CAG 
Brandon Larson 
 
 
We feel that this would make a good discussion item for the regional quarterly meetings. 
Thank you for your consideration in this matter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Jeff Jelinski 
Budget Base:
44,800.00
$                 
Regional Coordinator 
65,200.00
                   
Logger 
78,900.00
                   
Professional Services
-
                              
188,900.00
$            
50% of Total of Base
Equal Shares
25% of Total
Total
Regional 
2020
Proposed 
& Professional Servs
Regional 
based on Radio Count
Distribution
Logger
Costs
2021 Costs
Equal Shares
Coordinator
2010
Number
Distribution
2010 Census
Distribution
City of St. Cloud
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
6,953
            
123.70
        
792
             
882.10
        
5,616.31
           
5,260.00
       
11,685.55
     
10,876.31
     
Benton County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
38,451
          
684.06
        
294
             
327.45
        
5,622.03
           
5,622.03
       
5,622.03
       
Big Stone County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
5,269
            
93.74
          
239
             
266.19
        
4,970.45
           
5,260.00
       
11,039.68
     
10,230.45
     
Douglas County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
36,009
          
640.61
        
798
             
888.78
        
6,139.92
           
5,260.00
       
12,209.15
     
11,399.92
     
Grant County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
6,018
            
107.06
        
297
             
330.79
        
5,048.38
           
5,260.00
       
11,117.61
     
10,308.38
     
Kandiyohi County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
42,239
          
751.45
        
842
             
937.79
        
6,299.76
           
5,260.00
       
12,368.99
     
11,559.76
     
Meeker County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
23,300
          
414.52
        
400
             
445.51
        
5,470.55
           
5,260.00
       
11,539.78
     
10,730.55
     
Mille Lacs County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
26,097
          
464.27
        
605
             
673.83
        
5,748.63
           
5,260.00
       
11,817.86
     
11,008.63
     
Morrison County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
33,198
          
590.60
        
528
             
588.07
        
5,789.20
           
5,789.20
       
5,789.20
       
Otter Tail County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
57,303
          
1,019.44
     
965
             
1,074.78
     
6,704.75
           
5,260.00
       
12,773.98
     
11,964.75
     
Pope County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
10,995
          
195.60
        
281
             
312.97
        
5,119.10
           
5,260.00
       
11,188.33
     
10,379.10
     
Sherburne County
-
                              
-
                     
-
                
-
              
-
              
-
              
-
                    
5,260.00
       
6,069.23
       
5,260.00
       
Stearns County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
150,642
        
2,679.97
     
1,345
          
1,498.01
     
8,788.51
           
5,260.00
       
8,788.51
       
14,048.51
     
Stevens County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
9,726
            
173.03
        
231
             
257.28
        
5,040.83
           
5,260.00
       
11,110.07
     
10,300.83
     
Swift County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
9,783
            
174.04
        
319
             
355.29
        
5,139.86
           
5,139.86
       
5,139.86
       
Todd County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
24,895
          
442.89
        
408
             
454.42
        
5,507.83
           
5,507.83
       
5,507.83
       
Traverse County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
3,558
            
63.30
          
241
             
268.42
        
4,942.24
           
4,942.24
       
4,942.24
       
Wadena County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
13,843
          
246.27
        
313
             
348.61
        
5,205.41
           
5,205.41
       
5,205.41
       
Wilkin County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
6,576
            
116.99
        
120
             
133.65
        
4,861.17
           
5,260.00
       
10,930.40
     
10,121.17
     
Wright County
1,178.95
                     
3,431.58
            
124,700
        
2,218.46
     
1,038
          
1,156.09
     
7,985.07
           
5,260.00
       
14,054.30
     
13,245.07
     
Washington County
5,260.00
       
5,260.00
       
22,400.00
                   
65,200.00
          
629,555
11,200.00
   
10,056.00
   
11,200.00
   
110,000.00
       
78,900.00
    
188,900.01
   
183,640.00
   
Regional Radio Board Operating Expenses
Composite Allocation Plan
25% of Total  
based on Population
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Administrative Expenses
Meeting Expenses
Office Supplies
1,100.00
        
20.00
             
800.00
           
800.00
           
800.00
           
Printing
4,800.00
        
-
                  
4,000.00
        
4,000.00
        
4,000.00
        
Phone
1,800.00
        
800.00
           
1,100.00
        
1,100.00
        
1,100.00
        
Postage
400.00
           
20.00
             
400.00
           
400.00
           
400.00
           
8,100.00
        
840.00
           
6,300.00
        
6,300.00
        
6,300.00
        
MCIT
1,200.00
        
1,100.00
        
1,200.00
        
1,200.00
        
1,200.00
        
1,200.00
        
1,100.00
        
1,200.00
        
1,200.00
        
1,200.00
        
55,000.00
      
65,200.00
      
65,200.00
      
65,200.00
      
65,200.00
      
5,000.00
        
5,100.00
        
5,300.00
        
5,300.00
        
5,300.00
        
6,000.00
        
6,000.00
        
6,000.00
        
6,000.00
        
6,000.00
        
2,200.00
        
38,000.00
      
9,300.00
        
8,000.00
        
-
                  
-
                  
2,400.00
        
2,400.00
        
2,400.00
        
2,400.00
        
2,400.00
        
3,000.00
        
3,000.00
        
3,000.00
        
3,000.00
        
3,000.00
        
2,600.00
        
2,600.00
        
2,600.00
        
2,600.00
        
2,600.00
        
18,000.00
      
18,000.00
      
18,000.00
      
18,000.00
      
18,000.00
      
140,200.00
   
111,600.00
   
102,500.00
   
102,500.00
   
102,500.00
   
13,300.00
      
13,300.00
      
13,300.00
      
48,000.00
      
48,000.00
      
48,000.00
      
47,000.00
      
47,000.00
      
500.00
           
500.00
           
500.00
           
500.00
           
500.00
           
2,700.00
        
2,800.00
        
2,800.00
        
2,800.00
        
2,800.00
        
14,300.00
      
14,300.00
      
14,300.00
      
15,300.00
      
15,300.00
      
65,500.00
     
65,600.00
     
78,900.00
     
78,900.00
     
78,900.00
     
Total:
215,000.00
   
179,140.00
   
188,900.00
   
188,900.00
   
188,900.00
   
Base Budget
43,900.00
      
36,640.00
      
44,800.00
      
44,800.00
      
44,800.00
      
Motorola SUA II
Motorola Monitoring
Logger Maintenance Total
Replacement Fund
Genesis
Misc
Professional Services Total 
Logger Maintenance
Northland
MnDOT
Website Maintenance
Administrative Expenses Total
Insurance Expense
Insurance Expense Total
Professional Services
System Admin
Audit 
Analyzer
STR
Training
Website Design
Website Re-Design
DATE:        May 6, 2020 
TO:             All RAC Chairs 
FROM:       Cathy Anderson, Standards & Training Coordinator 
RE:              Standard for consideration 
The Standards workgroup has reviewed the following standard and recommended that each region review it 
and provide their feedback before it goes to the Steering Committee.   
PLEASE INCLUDE IT IN YOUR NEXT REGIONAL MEETING (RAC, O/O, Users, etc.) AND LET ME KNOW THE 
OUTCOME, INCLUDING ANY FEEDBACK, FROM YOUR REGION AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.  TARGET DATE IS MAY 
31, BUT LET ME KNOW IF YOUR REGION WILL NOT BE MEETING IN MAY (or if they already met).   
8.1.0 – Greater Minnesota Regional ESB / ECB Statewide Emergency Communications Board Member 
Selection 
This standard explains how selection occurs for regional representatives and defines their rotation of 
appointments to serve as a member and alternate of the SECB.  
The workgroup’s changes include:  
 
Purpose / Objective: 
• Removed the word radio, as regional boards are no longer exclusively for radio and have a broader 
spectrum of SECB standards.  
 
Operational Context: 
• Removed the “Represents” column so as not to have to make changes every time a region adds or 
loses an entity.  Additionally, if listing, it should be consistent with the signatories on each region’s JPA 
and would have to list them all. 
• Workgroup felt it is not necessary to know how many are represented and that this particular historical 
information is not needed.   
• The Workgroup felt it was important to call out that this standard goes to regions prior to going to the 
SECB.  
 
Recommended Procedure: 
• Service Year table was updated based on scheduled rotation through 2037.  
Greater Minnesota Regional Radio Board  
Statewide Radio Board Member Selection 
SECB Standard 8.1.0 
Approval 11/30/2017 
 
1 
Allied Radio Matrix for Emergency Response  
Standards, Protocols, Procedures 
 
 
Document Section 8 
Miscellaneous 
Status: Complete 
 
SECB Standard Number 
GOV-3 
Legacy Standard Number 
8.1.0 
Standard Title 
Greater Minnesota Regional 
ESB/ECB Statewide 
Emergency Communications 
Board Member Selection 
Date Established 
10/01/2010 
SECB Approval: 11/30/2017 
Replaces Document Dated 
01/24/201108/10/2017 
Date Revised/Reviewed 
08/10/201705/04/2020 
 
1.  Purpose or Objective 
 
The purpose of this standard is to define the process for selecting a regional radio 
representative to serve on the Statewide Emergency Communications Board (SECB) 
representing Regional Emergency Services/Emergency Communications Boards (ESB/ECBs) 
in greater Minnesota. 
 
2.  Technical Background 
 
 Capabilities 
 Constraints 
 
3.  Operational Context 
 
The formation of the SECB included a member intended to represent rRegional ESB/ECBs in 
Greater Minnesota. The SECB is charged with coordinating the appointment process to ensure 
representation from throughout the state. 
 
All regions of the state have been defined; rRegional ESB/ECBs are established and functioning 
providing regional governance in every region. The following list includes the defined regions 
in Greater Minnesota, their membership, and date of organization. 
 
Greater Minnesota Region  
                              Represents  
   Formed: 
Central Minnesota Regional ESB 
 
        19 counties & 1 city 
 June 7, 2007 
Northwest Minnesota Regional ECB 
        14 counties & 1 city 
February 8, 2008 
Southeast Minnesota Regional ECB                      11 counties & 1 city         April 16, 2008 
Southwest Minnesota Regional ECB                     13 counties & 2 cities     September 18, 2008 
South Central Minnesota Regional ECB               10 counties & 2 cities     September 30, 2008 
Northeast Minnesota Regional ECB                      11 counties & 4 cities     December 17, 2008 
 
Greater Minnesota Regional Radio Board  
Statewide Radio Board Member Selection 
SECB Standard 8.1.0 
Approval 11/30/2017 
 
2 
The Central Minnesota Regional ESB was the first Regional Radio Board formed.  They 
appointed a member and alternate to serve on the SECB in June 2007. After all regions 
constituted boards, regional leadership from Greater Minnesota began discussions to create a 
process for the rotation of representation to ensure that all regions of the state had equal and 
appropriate opportunity to serve on the SECB representing the interests of Greater Minnesota. 
This standard has been approved by the Regional Advisory Committees (RACs) and Regional 
ESB/ECBs representing all regions in Greater Minnesota. 
 
4.  Recommended Protocol/ Standard 
 
The Regional ESB/ECBs in Greater Minnesota will have the responsibility to select both 
alternate and primary SECB representatives in rotation, based on seniority by date of their 
Board’s formation.  
 
• In year one, the senior Board shall select a member to serve as a member of the SECB. 
The next senior Board shall select a member to serve as alternate.  
• In year two, the alternate from the previous year would serve as an SECB member 
representing Greater Minnesota ESB/ECBs, and the next senior board would select a 
member to serve as an alternate. 
  
If an alternate is not available to serve for any reason (i.e., Regional ESB/ECB term expiration, 
resignation, etc.) the appointing Regional ESB/ECB is responsible for appointing a member 
to serve. An ESB/ECB may select, by majority vote, to waive their right to serve.  
 
If a Regional ESB/ECB representing a Greater Minnesota region determines not to appoint 
an alternate for their appointment period, the next Board in rotation shall make the 
appointment. The Board waiving their right to serve shall again be considered for service on 
the next full rotation of the seniority list. The rotation will continue until all Boards selecting 
to serve have had the opportunity. When the least senior Board has completed the selection 
process, the next selection shall start again at the top of the list. 
 
Since the Central Minnesota Regional ECB has appointed a member to serve since its 
formation, this process will start with the next senior Regional ESB/ECB for the first rotation.  
 
5.  Recommended Procedure 
 
 The schedule defining the rotation of appointments to serve as a member and alternate 
of the SECB representing ESB/ECBs in Greater Minnesota shall be: 
 
 
Greater Minnesota Regional Radio Board  
Statewide Radio Board Member Selection 
SECB Standard 8.1.0 
Approval 11/30/2017 
 
3 
Service 
Year 
Service 
Year 
Service 
Year 
Primary 
Appointment 
Alternate 
Appointment 
20102028 20162034 
2022 
Central 
Northwest 
20112029 20172035 
2023 
Northwest 
Southeast 
20122030 20182036 
2024 
Southeast 
Southwest 
20132031 20192037 
2025 
Southwest 
South Central 
20142032 
2020 
2026 
South Central 
Northeast 
20152033 
2021 
2027 
Northeast 
Central 
 
 
 The term of service as an SECB member or alternate representing Greater Minnesota 
Regional ESB/ECBs shall be one year, commencing with the first meeting in January and 
ending with the last meeting in December, or until replaced by a duly- appointed 
replacement, in accordance with this SECB Standard.  
 
 The chair of the Regional ESB/ECB responsible for the appointment of a primary 
member to serve on the SECB representing Greater Minnesota Regional ESB/ECBs shall 
notify the chair of the SECB of the appointment. The notification shall include all contact 
information required to ensure proper and adequate notification of meeting schedules, 
location, agendas, and other required and relevant information. The Chair of the 
Regional ESB/ECB shall make every reasonable effort to ensure notification is 
completed no later than December 15 of the year prior to the appointment year. 
 
 The chair of the Regional ESB/ECB responsible for the appointment of an alternate to 
serve on the SECB representing Greater Minnesota Regional ESB/ECBs shall notify the 
chair of the SECB of the appointment. The notification shall include all contact 
information required to ensure proper and adequate notification of meeting schedules, 
location, agendas, and other required and relevant information. The chair of the 
Regional ESB/ECB shall make every reasonable effort to ensure notification is 
completed no later than December 15 of the year prior to the appointment year. 
 
 The chair of the Regional ESB/ECB responsible for the appointment of a member or 
alternate to serve on the SECB representing Greater Minnesota Regional ESB/ECBs 
where the Regional ESB/ECB has waived its right to appoint shall notify the Chair of the 
SECB no later than December 15 of the year prior to the appointment year. The Chair of 
the SECB shall notify the Chair of the next Regional ESB/ECB in rotation and coordinate 
their appointment process to ensure timely and effective appointment of replacements. 
 
 The SECB shall extend or adjust the schedule in this standard as required by expiration 
or waiver of appointment. 
Greater Minnesota Regional Radio Board  
Statewide Radio Board Member Selection 
SECB Standard 8.1.0 
Approval 11/30/2017 
 
4 
6.  Management 
 
The SECB is responsible for the management of this process. 
 
Meeting Date: May 13,2020 
Regular Agenda: 
X 
Requesting Entity: Region 4 EMAC 
Special Request: 
 
Title of Requested Item As It Will Appear on Board Agenda: 
 
 
 
 
Background Information: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Action Requested: 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Impact: 
Estimated Cost ($): 
$89250.00 
Source of Funds: 
HSEM SHSP funding 
New or Additional Revenue ($): 
No 
Cost Budgeted in Current Year? (Yes/No) 
 
 
Accommodations: 
Amt of Time Requested 
Specific Time on Agenda 
Laptop Needed? 
Overhead Needed? 
10 minutes 
 
 
 
 Yes               No 
 
Yes               No 
 
Approved by: 
Signature 
Date 
Committee Representative: 
 Stephanie Johnson, Meeker County 
05/08/2020 
 
Approval of 2020 SHSP Grant Application 
Draft SHSP grant application was submitted to HSEM for contractor services for the next grant 
period on Friday, April 24, 2020. Due to communication issues, we were notified of the grant with 
very limited time to submit an application. After speaking with Shari and Micah, a draft application 
was submitted to HSEM for contractor services. The grant application is the same as the last SHSP 
grant application. Region 4 EMAC group is asking for official approval for the SHSP draft grant 
application. 
Approval of SHSP Grant Application for Region 4 EMAC 
EMERGENCY SERVICES BOARD 
AGENDA REQUEST 
 
 
 
 
Rev. 10/24/2018 
State Homeland Security Grant Program FFY2019 
SHSP Project Application 
Grant performance period: January 1 – December 31, 2020
HSEM Region 
Jurisdiction/Agency Name 
Contact Name 
Phone 
Email 
Project Name 
Project can start within 90 days of award date: 
Yes 
No 
Core capability most strongly supported by this project: 
Investment justification most strongly supported by this project: 
Project Description and Outcomes — Describe the project, its outcomes and how it will improve 
preparedness in your jurisdiction: 
Capabilities — Describe how this project sustains or maintains your current capabilities: 
Project Budget — Break down your project cost by category: 
Category 
Amount 
Description 
Planning 
Organization 
Equipment 
Training 
Exercises 
M&A 
Total 
If applicable, amount going directly to law enforcement:  
4 - WC
Central MN - EMAC 
Stephanie Johnson
(320) 693-5420
stephanie.johnson@co.meeker.mn.u
Training/Exercise Coordination
Planning
Strengthen Planning
The National Preparedness Goal describes a set of core capabilities organized into five different mission areas. 
Protection, one of the mission areas, aims to prevent, avoid or stop an imminent, threatened or actual act of terrorism. 
Within that mission area, Intelligence and Information Sharing is described as providing timely, accurate, and actionable  
information resulting from the planning, direction, collection, exploitation, processing, analysis, production, dissemination, 
evaluation, and feedback of available information concerning physical and cyber threats to the United States. Information 
sharing is the ability to exchange intelligence, information, data, or knowledge among government or private sector 
entities. All 18 Counties within Region IV strive to be as prepared and engaged as possible in order to successfully 
prevent incidences of terrorism, using a whole community approach. Readiness is not only about having a written plan, it 
also incorporates training, exercising, and multi-jurisdictional collaboration to test, evaluate, and generate guidelines and 
practices we can later incorporate into response and recovery efforts. 
Central Minnesota Emergency Management Advisory Committee (CM-EMAC) would like to enhance our preparedness 
and methods of prevention by contracting for services to guide and facilitate our efforts as a region through the use of 
exercises at a county or sub-regional level. The contractor would create, facilitate, evaluate, and assist with improvement 
planning for training or exercises up to 18 times throughout the region. The contractor will build a base exercise focused 
on the identified core capability and tailor it to each county upon request. They will then facilitate trainings and exercises 
and create an after action report/improvement plan in coordination with the local county. In addition to regional 
coordination, the contractor would also work individually with each county to focus on their gap analysis and work to 
enhance their preparedness level through training and exercise implementation based on a terrorism event. Central 
Minnesota Emergency Management Advisory Committee (CMEMAC) seeks to enhance our readiness by securing the 
services of a regional contractor to assist in closing jurisdiction & region capability gaps. Beyond maintaining/enhancing 
the CMEMAC Preparedness Report and Strategic Plan, the contractor will utilize it to support efforts to identify, develop, 
and implement capability-based education, training, and projects to achieve the region’s goals – with an emphasis on 
efforts to prevent, respond, and recover from a terrorism event. The contractor will also establish a regional multi-year 
training & exercise plan to ensure progress and testing of newly developed/enhanced capabilities, along with our ability 
to provide for coordinated response and recovery operations where regional efforts and support may be needed.
With the assistance of contract services, Region IV has been able to continue establishing our capabilities and gaps as 
well as identifying our threats and hazards. We also continue to work on making progress identifying our critical 
infrastructure and conducting threat assessments.  
CM-EMAC sees the progress and advantages of contracting for services to aid with strategic and terrorism planning as 
well as exercise development/facilitation.  
Core Capabilities addressed by this project: Housing, Risk Management for Protection Programs & Activities, Long-Term 
Vulnerability Reduction, and Supply Chain Integrity & Security.   
 
$ 75,000 Contract Hours for Personnel 
$ 5,000 Facilitation of Trainings, Supplies, Room Rental, Speaker Fees
$ 5,000 Facilitation of Exercises, Supplies, Room Rental, Speaker Fees
$ 4,250 Management & Administration
$ 89,250
Rev. 10/24/2018 
Equipment Request — Provide a detailed list of the equipment purchases proposed for this project: 
AEL Number 
Title 
Authorized 
for SHSP 
Cost per unit 
Qty. 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Environmental and Historic Preservation — Describe any new construction, modifications to existing 
structures or any activity that could affect the natural environment included in this project (N/A if none): 
Project Timeline — Provide a timeline of project tasks with milestones and dates for each task: 
Task (for example, hire, equip and 
train a planner; conduct training; 
purchase software) 
Milestone 
Start Date 
End Date 
Submit completed form to Matti.Gurney@state.mn.us, your regional program coordinator, and regional 
board chair.  Projects must be ranked by region and rankings submitted to HSEM by April 30th 2019.
For questions regarding this application or the SHSP, contact HSEM 
Homeland Security Grant Administrator Matti Gurney at (651) 201-7422 
Distribute RFP
RFP Made Available for Responses
9/1/2020
9/13/2020
Select Candidates for Interviews
Interviews Scheduled
9/23/2020
9/27/2020
Conduct Interviews 
Interviews Finished & Candidate Identified
9/30/2020
10/4/2020
CM EMAC Approval of Candidate
Affirmative Vote of CM EMAC
10/23/2020
10/23/2020
ESB Contract Approval 
Affirmative Vote of ESB
12/18/2020
12/18/2020
Award Contract 
Signed Contract
12/19/2020
12/19/2020
Contract Work Begins 
Contractor Provided Initial Intro/Task(s)
1/1/2021
1/1/2021
Contract Work Ends
All Work Products Provided to CM EMAC
12/31/2021
12/31/2021
Save As...
Submit  
 
 
Meeting Date: June 10, 2020 
Regular Agenda: 
X 
Requesting Entity: Central MN Logger Committee 
Special Request: 
 
Title of Requested Item As It Will Appear on Board Agenda: 
 
 
 
 
Background Information: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Action Requested: 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Impact: 
Estimated Cost ($): 
 
Source of Funds: 
 
New or Additional Revenue ($): 
 
Cost Budgeted in Current Year? (Yes/No) 
 
 
Accommodations: 
Amt of Time Requested 
Specific Time on Agenda 
Laptop Needed? 
Overhead Needed? 
 
 
 
 
 Yes               No 
 
Yes               No 
 
Approved by: 
Signature 
Date 
Committee Representative: 
 
 
 
Central MN Logger Committee – Bylaw Update 
The Central MN Logger Committee requests to approve the updates to our bylaws.  The updates 
include additional language regarding “Limited Membership” to better describe what a limited 
member is and the expectations. 
Approve. 
EMERGENCY SERVICES BOARD 
AGENDA REQUEST 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bylaws 
 
 
 
Central Minnesota 
Emergency Services Board 
Logger Committee 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Submitted by: 
 
Central Minnesota Regional Logger Committee 
Adopted: June 2017 
Revised: March 2020 
Formatted: Centered
Formatted: Centered
 
 
 
BY-LAWS 
 Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board 
Logger Committee 
 
Adopted:  June 2017 
Revised: March 2020 
 
ARTICLE I:  Name 
 
This organization shall be known as the Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board Logger 
Committee.  The committee may be referred to as the "CM Logger Committee". The Logger 
Committee is formed pursuant to the Joint Powers Agreement (hereinafter “Agreement”) forming 
the Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board (hereinafter “Board”). 
 
ARTICLE II:  Purpose 
 
The purpose of the Logger Committee is to: 
 
A. 
A collaborative effort of a portion of the JPA membership that worked to create shared 
logging infrastructure that is scalable. 
 
B. 
Provide cost sharing for logging equipment and maintenance agreements, better utilizing 
public dollars. 
 
C. 
Propose and develop policies and standards for the regional logger. 
 
D. 
Advise the Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board when acting as the Logger 
Committee, on matters of protocol, procedures and operations. 
 
E. 
To assist the members of the region to assure their logging needs are being met 
satisfactorily. 
 
F. 
Such other duties as assigned by the Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board. 
 
ARTICLE III:  Membership 
 
A. 
Full Membership.  The administration of each party to the Central Minnesota Emergency 
Services Board that chooses to participate and others shall appoint, at the invitation of the 
Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board, one delegate and one alternate.  The 
appointment shall be in writing and addressed to the Chair, Central Minnesota Emergency 
Services Board.   
  
B. 
Limited Membership.  To include Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) or other, are 
non-voting parties.  The party shall appoint a non-voting representative and one alternate 
to represent their party’s interest. The appointment shall be in writing and addressed to the 
Chair, Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board.   
 
C.  
Term.  The term of appointment shall be determined by the appointing authority.  Members, 
once appointed by their respective parties, shall remain the appointee of the Members 
agency until notified in writing of a change. There shall be no limit on the number of times 
a member may be reappointed by their respective party. 
 
Formatted: Indent: Left:  0", First line:  0"
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE IV:  Officers 
 
A. 
Elected Officers. The elected officers shall be Chairperson and Vice Chairperson. 
 
B. 
Term of Office.  All terms of office shall be for a period of one (1) calendar year, following 
election at the first regular meeting of each year, provided that the first elected officers 
shall serve until the first meeting of the following year. 
 
C. 
Duties.   
 
 
1. 
Chairperson – The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Central 
Minnesota Emergency Services Board Logger Committee.  The Chairperson is 
responsible for making subcommittee appointments and delegating assignments 
with the advice of the committee membership. 
 
 
2. 
Vice Chairperson – The Vice Chairperson shall act in the place of the Chairperson 
in his or her absence and shall hold responsibilities as directed by the membership. 
 
 
3. 
The Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson shall serve as the committee’s 
appointments to the Central MN Emergency Services Board (CMNESB).  The 
Chair will serve as the delegate and the Vice Chair will serve as the alternate. 
 
 
D. 
Vacancies.  The membership shall fill all vacancies at the next regular meeting of the 
Logger Committee.   
 
ARTICLE VVI:  Voting, Nominations and Elections 
 
A. 
Voting.  Each member appointed by a member jurisdiction shall be entitled to a vote on all 
matters considered by the Logger Committee.  Under no circumstances will any 
jurisdiction be entitled to more than one (1) vote per member actually present. 
 
B. 
Candidates.  Any member in good standing appointed by a member jurisdiction to a term 
fully inclusive of the proposed term of office may be nominated for office. 
 
C. 
Quorum and Voting.  For the purpose of conducting business at any meeting, a quorum 
shall consist of members representing at least one quarter (1/4) of the total member 
jurisdictions.  Approval by a majority of the members in attendance shall be valid. 
 
ARTICLE VII:  Subcommittees 
 
The Logger Committee may create and appoint such subcommittees as it deems appropriate to the 
completion of its purpose. 
 
 
 
 
 
Formatted: Normal, Left
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE VIII:  Meetings and Fiscal Year 
 
A. 
Meetings. 
 
 
1. 
Regular meetings shall be held at a time and place determined in accordance with 
a schedule adopted by the Logger Committee.  The schedule may be modified by 
the membership at any time in a manner to be determined by the Logger 
Committee. 
 
 
2. 
The agenda and supporting materials for regular and special meetings shall be 
distributed electronically a minimum of seven (7) calendar days prior to the 
meeting date. 
 
 
3. 
Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson after polling, by phone or e-
mail, and obtaining the consent of members representing at least fifty percent 
(50%) of the appointed members of the Logger Committee. Business at special 
meetings shall be limited to those items specifically listed in the published agenda. 
 
B. 
Fiscal Year 
 
 
1. 
The fiscal year shall run from January 1 through December 31. 
 
ARTICLE VIIIIX:  Rules of Order 
 
Robert's Rules of Order will prevail in all Logger Committee or subcommittee meetings except as 
amended in the By-Laws of the Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board Logger Committee.  
The Authorized version shall be the most recent version available. 
 
ARTICLE IX:  Amendments to By-Laws 
 
These By-Laws may be amended at any meeting by a minimum of two-thirds (2/3) vote of those 
appointed members present, providing a quorum has been established (see Article VI, Section C, 
Nominations and Elections, Quorum/Voting).  A minimum thirty (30) day written notice of the 
intent to change the By-Laws must be submitted to the entire Committee.  All modifications and 
addendums to the Logger Committee By-Laws must be approved by the Central Minnesota 
Emergency Services Board before taking effect. 
 
ARTICLE XI:  Limitations 
 
A. 
Membership Expenses.  The Logger Committee shall not be responsible for any expenses 
of members.  All member jurisdictions shall be solely responsible for expenses incurred by 
their representatives. 
 
ARTICLE XII:  Dissolution 
 
A. 
Dissolution.  The Logger Committee may only be dissolved as provided by the parties to 
the agreement forming the Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board. 
Formatted: Font: 10 pt
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bylaws 
 
 
 
Central Minnesota 
Emergency Services Board 
Logger Committee 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Submitted by: 
 
Central Minnesota Logger Committee 
Adopted: June 2017 
Revised: March 2020 
 
 
 
BY-LAWS 
 Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board 
Logger Committee 
 
Adopted:  June 2017 
Revised: March 2020 
 
ARTICLE I:  Name 
 
This organization shall be known as the Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board Logger 
Committee.  The committee may be referred to as the "CM Logger Committee". The Logger 
Committee is formed pursuant to the Joint Powers Agreement (hereinafter “Agreement”) forming 
the Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board (hereinafter “Board”). 
 
ARTICLE II:  Purpose 
 
The purpose of the Logger Committee is to: 
 
A. 
A collaborative effort of a portion of the JPA membership that worked to create shared 
logging infrastructure that is scalable. 
 
B. 
Provide cost sharing for logging equipment and maintenance agreements, better utilizing 
public dollars. 
 
C. 
Propose and develop policies and standards for the regional logger. 
 
D. 
Advise the Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board when acting as the Logger 
Committee, on matters of protocol, procedures and operations. 
 
E. 
To assist the members of the region to assure their logging needs are being met 
satisfactorily. 
 
F. 
Such other duties as assigned by the Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board. 
 
ARTICLE III:  Membership 
 
A. 
Full Membership.  The administration of each party to the Central Minnesota Emergency 
Services Board that chooses to participate and others shall appoint, at the invitation of the 
Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board, one delegate and one alternate.  The 
appointment shall be in writing and addressed to the Chair, Central Minnesota Emergency 
Services Board.   
  
B. 
Limited Membership.  To include Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) or other, are 
non-voting parties.  The party shall appoint a non-voting representative and one alternate 
to represent their party’s interest. The appointment shall be in writing and addressed to the 
Chair, Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board.   
 
C.  
Term.  The term of appointment shall be determined by the appointing authority.  Members, 
once appointed by their respective parties, shall remain the appointee of the Members 
agency until notified in writing of a change. There shall be no limit on the number of times 
a member may be reappointed by their respective party. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE IV:  Officers 
 
A. 
Elected Officers. The elected officers shall be Chairperson and Vice Chairperson. 
 
B. 
Term of Office.  All terms of office shall be for a period of one (1) calendar year, following 
election at the first regular meeting of each year, provided that the first elected officers 
shall serve until the first meeting of the following year. 
 
C. 
Duties.   
 
 
1. 
Chairperson – The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Central 
Minnesota Emergency Services Board Logger Committee.  The Chairperson is 
responsible for making subcommittee appointments and delegating assignments 
with the advice of the committee membership. 
 
 
2. 
Vice Chairperson – The Vice Chairperson shall act in the place of the Chairperson 
in his or her absence and shall hold responsibilities as directed by the membership. 
 
 
3. 
The Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson shall serve as the committee’s 
appointments to the Central MN Emergency Services Board (CMNESB).  The 
Chair will serve as the delegate and the Vice Chair will serve as the alternate. 
 
 
D. 
Vacancies.  The membership shall fill all vacancies at the next regular meeting of the 
Logger Committee.   
 
ARTICLE V:  Voting, Nominations and Elections 
 
A. 
Voting.  Each member appointed by a member jurisdiction shall be entitled to a vote on all 
matters considered by the Logger Committee.  Under no circumstances will any 
jurisdiction be entitled to more than one (1) vote per member actually present. 
 
B. 
Candidates.  Any member in good standing appointed by a member jurisdiction to a term 
fully inclusive of the proposed term of office may be nominated for office. 
 
C. 
Quorum and Voting.  For the purpose of conducting business at any meeting, a quorum 
shall consist of members representing at least one quarter (1/4) of the total member 
jurisdictions.  Approval by a majority of the members in attendance shall be valid. 
 
ARTICLE VI:  Subcommittees 
 
The Logger Committee may create and appoint such subcommittees as it deems appropriate to the 
completion of its purpose. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE VII:  Meetings and Fiscal Year 
 
A. 
Meetings. 
 
 
1. 
Regular meetings shall be held at a time and place determined in accordance with 
a schedule adopted by the Logger Committee.  The schedule may be modified by 
the membership at any time in a manner to be determined by the Logger 
Committee. 
 
 
2. 
The agenda and supporting materials for regular and special meetings shall be 
distributed electronically a minimum of seven (7) calendar days prior to the 
meeting date. 
 
 
3. 
Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson after polling, by phone or e-
mail, and obtaining the consent of members representing at least fifty percent 
(50%) of the appointed members of the Logger Committee. Business at special 
meetings shall be limited to those items specifically listed in the published agenda. 
 
B. 
Fiscal Year 
 
 
1. 
The fiscal year shall run from January 1 through December 31. 
 
ARTICLE VIII:  Rules of Order 
 
Robert's Rules of Order will prevail in all Logger Committee or subcommittee meetings except as 
amended in the By-Laws of the Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board Logger Committee.  
The Authorized version shall be the most recent version available. 
 
ARTICLE IX:  Amendments to By-Laws 
 
These By-Laws may be amended at any meeting by a minimum of two-thirds (2/3) vote of those 
appointed members present, providing a quorum has been established (see Article VI, Section C, 
Nominations and Elections, Quorum/Voting).  A minimum thirty (30) day written notice of the 
intent to change the By-Laws must be submitted to the entire Committee.  All modifications and 
addendums to the Logger Committee By-Laws must be approved by the Central Minnesota 
Emergency Services Board before taking effect. 
 
ARTICLE X:  Limitations 
 
A. 
Membership Expenses.  The Logger Committee shall not be responsible for any expenses 
of members.  All member jurisdictions shall be solely responsible for expenses incurred by 
their representatives. 
 
ARTICLE XI:  Dissolution 
 
A. 
Dissolution.  The Logger Committee may only be dissolved as provided by the parties to 
the agreement forming the Central Minnesota Emergency Services Board. 
Central MN Emergency Services Board
Standard 7.2.1
Attendance Score 2020
Period:  May 2019 - April 2020
ESB mtgs= 6
RAC mtgs =12
OO mtgs =12
USER mtgs=12
Annual = 42
Entity
#
Score
#
Score
#
Score
#
Score
TOTAL #
Score
City of St. Cloud
6
100%
12
100%
12
100%
11
92%
41
98%
Benton
4
67%
11
92%
11
92%
11
92%
37
88%
Big Stone
6
100%
12
100%
10
83%
11
92%
39
93%
Douglas
6
100%
10
83%
11
92%
11
92%
38
90%
Grant
6
100%
11
92%
8
67%
11
92%
36
86%
Kandiyohi
6
100%
12
100%
9
75%
10
83%
37
88%
Meeker
4
67%
11
92%
12
100%
12
100%
39
93%
Mille Lacs
5
83%
11
92%
12
100%
12
100%
40
95%
Morrison
6
100%
9
75%
11
92%
11
92%
37
88%
Otter Tail
5
83%
11
92%
11
92%
12
100%
39
93%
Pope
6
100%
11
92%
12
100%
12
100%
41
98%
Stearns
5
83%
11
92%
12
100%
12
100%
40
95%
Stevens
6
100%
12
100%
12
100%
12
100%
42
100%
Swift
4
67%
11
92%
10
83%
10
83%
35
83%
Todd
6
100%
12
100%
12
100%
12
100%
42
100%
Traverse
6
100%
10
83%
10
83%
11
92%
37
88%
Wadena
6
100%
10
83%
8
67%
11
92%
35
83%
Wilkin
6
100%
11
92%
11
92%
12
100%
40
95%
Wright
6
100%
12
100%
11
92%
12
100%
41
98%
ESB Board, RAC, Owners and Operators, and User Committees
