                                                                                                 AGENDA 
 
Regular Business Meeting of the Southern Pines Tow 
n Council 
           June 9, 2020, 6:00 PM, Virtual Meeting 
 
The Southern Pines Town Council Regular Business Meeting of June 9, 2020 will take place by virtual locations for 
members of Town Council and town staff. The meeting will be accessible to the community by a live online webinar or 
conference call for applicants and members of the public. The meeting will begin at 6:00 p.m. on June 9, 2020 until Council 
adjourns. 
 
The purpose of the online meeting is in response to Restrictions on gatherings per North Carolina Executive Order No. 121. 
There will be two options for public to observe the Meetings- 
 
Attend using your computer or smartphone to watch and listen to the proceedings and to provide 
comment   when prompted. Register for the meeting in advance by going to: 
https://attendee.gotowebinar.com/register/2253529752558770699 
 
Attend using your telephone to listen to the proceedings and to provide comment when prompted. 
At the meeting time, dial (631) 992-3221 then use Audio Access Code 968-977-658. 
Call to Order 
 
Pledge of Allegiance  
1. 
Manager’s Comments 
 
2. 
Public Hearings 
“No final votes to be taken the evening of Hearing and written comment will be accepted regarding Items B and 
D for twenty-four hours following the close of the Hearing.” 
 
A. 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End 
B. 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek 
C. 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek 
D. 
Fiscal Year 2020-2021 Budget Presentation and Hearing 
 
3. 
Consent Agenda 
 
All items listed below are considered routine and will be enacted by one motion and without discussion. 
 
A. 
System Development Fees 
 
- 
Capital Reserve Fund Resolution 
- 
Amending Fund 64: CRF – Water Ordinance $172,231 
- 
Amending Fund 65: CRF – Sewer Ordinance $174,865 
 
B. 
Code of Ordinance Amendments 
 
- 
Amendment to Chapter 32, Public Works, Section 32.076 
- 
Amendment to Chapter 50, Water and Sewer Use 
- 
Amendment to Chapter 50, Water and Sewer Use, Appendix A 
 
C. 
Capital Project Fund Ordinances 
 
- Fund 40: Amending the Building Renovation Project Budget - $710,000 
- Fund 44: Amending the Parking Lot Fund Budget - $45,000 
- Fund 50: Amending the Streambank Stabilization Budget - $75,000 
- Fund 57: Amending the Sidewalk Phase II Budget - $100,000 
- Fund 61: Amending the Warrior Woods Lift Station Budget - $283,151 
- Fund 63: Amending the Lift Station Upgrades Budget - $530,000 
 
 
 
 
 
- Fund 66: Amending the Water Treatment Process Modernization Budget - $517,900 
- Fund 67: Amending the Water and Sewer Improvements Budget 
($212,000) 
- Fund 67: Amending the Water and Sewer Improvements Budget - 
$696,000 
- Fund 68: Amending the East Morganton Road Water Line Budget - $175,928 
- Fund 74: Amending the Pennsylvania/PeeDee Waterline Budget - $118,843 
- Fund 75: Amending the Sanitary Sewer Modernization Budget - $750,000 
- Fund 47: Closing the Public Road Economic Development Fund – ($27,590) 
- Fund 51: Closing the Fire Substation Fund – ($276,528) 
- Fund 53: Closing the Pool Park Fund – ($12,740) 
- Fund 54: Closing the Downtown Park Fund – ($6,748) 
- Fund 59: Amending the General Capital Reserve Fund - $323,606 
 
4. 
Public Comment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURES 
 
The Southern Pines Town Council is committed to allowing members of the public an opportunity to 
offer comments and suggestions.  In addition to public hearings, a special time is set aside for the 
purpose of receiving such comments and suggestions.  All comments 
and suggestions addressed to the Council during the Public Comment Period shall be subject to the 
following procedures: 
 
1.   The Public Comment Period will be held at the end of the Council Meeting. 
 
2.   Each person choosing to speak is asked to keep their statements to a reasonable length in time in 
recognition that others may also wish to speak and that the Council requires time to conduct its 
normal business.  The Chair retains the right to limit discussion as he/she deems necessary. 
 
3.   Speakers will be acknowledged by the Mayor/Chair.  Speakers will address the Council from 
the lectern at the front of the room and begin their remarks by stating their name and address 
for the record. 
 
4.   Public comment is not intended to require the Council and/or staff to answer any impromptu 
questions.  Speakers will address all comments to the entire Council as whole and not one 
individual member.  Discussions between speakers and members of the audience will not be 
permitted. 
 
5.   Speakers will be courteous in their language and presentation.  Matters or comments which are 
harmful, discriminatory or embarrassing to any citizens, official or employee of the Town shall 
not be allowed.  Speaker must be respectful and courteous in their remarks and must refrain from 
personal attacks and the 
use of profanity. 
 
6.   Any applause will be held until the end of the Public Comment Period. 
 
7.   Speakers who have prepared written remarks or supporting documents are encouraged 
to leave a copy of such remarks and documents with the Clerk to the Council. 
 
8.   Speakers shall not discuss any of the following:  matters which concern the candidacy of any 
person seeking public office, including the candidacy of the person addressing the Council; 
matters which are closed session matters, including but not limited to matters within the 
attorney-client privilege, anticipated or pending litigation, personnel, property acquisition, 
matters which are made confidential by law; matters which are the subject of public hearings. 
 
9.   Action on items brought up during the Public Comment Period will be at the 
discretion of the Council. 
 
 
Agenda Item 
To: 
Reagan Parsons  
Via: 
BJ Grieve, Planning Director 
From: 
Lauren Long, Planner I  
Subject: 
CU-03-19 and S-48-19: A Conditional Use Permit and 
Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat for 58 Lots Within 
an Existing Residential Development; Applicants: 
Plantation Investors, LLC (Bob Levy); Bob Koontz of 
KoontzJones Design PLLC, Authorized Agent 
Date: 
June 9, 2020 
I.
SUMMARY OF APPLICATION REQUEST:
Mr. Bob Koontz has submitted an application for a Conditional Use Permit and a
Preliminary Plat for a major subdivision of 58 total lots on 23.64 acres zoned RS-2CD.
The proposed subdivision is within an existing residential development presently called
“Mid South” that was approved in 1988 for 647 dwelling units. The development is
located on the east side of Knoll Road between  Midland Road to the north and Morganton
Road to the south. The preliminary plat is for two phases. Phase One will be located along the
extension of Plantation Drive south of Claret Court and proposes 52 single-family lots along
with open space. Phase Two proposes six single-family lots and one lot dedicated to open
space east of the intersection of Plantation Drive and Hadley Court. The subject parcels are
identified as PIN: 857200543226 (PARID: 20120323) and PIN: 857200614866
(PARID: 20071162). Per the Moore County tax records, the property owner is listed
as Plantation Investors, LLC.
II.
PLANNING BOARD ACTION:
At the May 21, 2020 Regular Meeting of the Planning Board, in accordance with UDO §
2.5.2, the board voted to observe the procedures defined in UDO § 2.13.2 for Legislative
Public Hearings. The Planning Board heard from staff as well as those in attendance
regarding application CU-03-19 and S-48-19. Planning staff presented a review of the
Conditional use Permit application for a Major Subdivision and Preliminary Plat. Planning
staff reviewed details of the project and discussed compliance with the Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO). Staff noted that the applicant would need to request
deviations based upon their application submittal to the street cross sections and specify
the built standard they were seeking.
Mr. Koontz presented a slideshow presentation and answered a variety of questions from
the public and the Planning Board. The Planning Board asked about the future connection
of Plantation Drive, circulation and access of traffic for construction and emergency
vehicles, stormwater requirements, the security and adequacy of the proposed emergency
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 1 of 140
access road, and about landscape buffers between the perimeter of the proposed 
subdivision and the existing surrounding development. Mr. Cliff Dahl, who resides at 115 
Belfair Court, asked about the connection and loop of Plantation Drive and expressed his 
concerns about access due to the limited number of existing access’. Mr. Dahl explained 
that he had taken an informal poll and received over 60 responses that desired the 
connection of Plantation Drive and an additional access be added through West Michigan 
Avenue. Mr. Koontz stated that there would be emergency access off of Windsong Drive 
and that potentially, depending on what the Fire Marshall would require, West Michigan 
Avenue. Mr. Koontz also stated that in the case of an emergency the residents would be 
able to use the emergency access as a point of egress and Windsong Drive, during 
construction, would also be used as a construction access. Once construction was 
complete it would be used for emergency vehicle access.  
 
Gerald Feeny, the President of the Mid-South POA Board of Directors, explained that 
originally the Board of Directors had concerns over traffic congestion, the circulation of 
construction vehicles, the type of housing that was proposed to be built, and the location 
of emergency access points. However, to date, their questions had been answered by the 
developer. He also expressed that he did not foresee any issues with the Mid-South POA 
regulating construction traffic coming through the main gate.  
 
Leena Sellers, who resides at 98 Plantation Drive, asked if the board would be willing to 
mandate that all construction vehicles be limited to the use of Windsong Drive as the 
construction access. Mr. Koontz stated that this would not be an issue in the future 
because the only access to the phases was through Windsong Drive. Heavy Construction 
vehicles would not be using the main gate. Andy Bleggi, member of the Planning Board, 
stated that control of construction vehicles should be left to the discretion of the Mid-
South POA and that the roads in Mid-South were private roads. Discussion ensued as to 
the authority that should regulate construction vehicles and it was recommended by the 
Planning Board that the construction vehicles follow the direction of the Mid-South POA 
in regards to their access and circulation. Joseph Sellers, also residing at 98 Plantation 
Drive, asked about the bridge on Palmer Drive and stated that the developers did not 
address what their plan was if the bridge was compromised. Mr. Sellers also stated that 
the TIA that had been submitted was not conducted during the Golf season when traffic 
would be at its highest levels. Mr. Koontz stated that the TIA conducted utilized 
historical data from NCDOT as well as a specific day chosen by the Traffic Engineer.  
 
Gary Podlogar, who resides at 10 Plantation Drive, stated that he had concerns about the 
developer clear cutting the existing tress and requested that the developer be held to the 
same standards that residents of Mid-South are held to when undergoing review by the 
Mid-South Architectural Review Board.  BJ Grieve, Planning Director for the Town of 
Southern Pines, explained that in the state of North Carolina there were specific 
limitations on regulation of architecture and should be a matter for the Mid-South POA.  
Meredith Jones, who did not identify her place of residence, asked what type of security 
features would secure the emergency access point. Mr. Koontz explained that they had 
not yet finalized but ensured that it would be secured and in compliance with the 
requirements of the Town Fire Marshall.  
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 2 of 140
 
After hearing testimony form those wishing to speak the Planning Board closed the 
public hearing and proceeded with Board Discussion. The Board asked members of staff 
and Mr. Koontz questions concerning the future connection of Plantation Drive and about 
securing the Emergency Access, about the recommendations made by fish and wildlife to 
have the property surveyed. Mr. Koontz stated that they intended to have a survey done 
and that the connection of the Plantation Drive loop would be completed in Future 
phases. Mr. Koontz requested that a deviation be recommended by Planning Board and 
granted by Town Council, that the requirement for street trees and sidewalks be waived 
so that the proposed extensions of streets within the Mid-South development were 
consistent with the existing streets.  
 
After discussing the public’s testimony, Diane Westbrooke made a motion to adopt 
Attachment A of the staff report. The motion was seconded by Lem Dowdy. Ms. 
Westbrooke then read the conditions of approval that Planning Board wished to forward 
to Town Council and made a motion to recommend approval of CU-03-19. Ms. 
Westbrooke then made a motion to adopt attachment B of the Staff report, seconded by 
Mr. Dowdy. Ms. Westbrooke then made a motion to recommend approval of S-48-19 to 
the Town Council. The motion was seconded by Mr. Dowdy. All motions were carried 
unanimously.     
 
III. 
PROJECT INFORMATION: 
 
A. Property Owner & Applicant Information: 
 
i. 
Property Owners: 
Plantation Investors, LLC. 
723 Talamore Drive  
Ambler, PA, 19002 
 
ii. 
Applicant: 
Plantation Investors, LLC. 
723 Talamore Drive  
Ambler, PA, 19002 
 
iii. 
Authorized Agent: 
Koontz Jones Design 
150 South Page Street 
Southern Pines, NC 28387 
 
B. Project History and Site Information: 
 
i. 
Location:  
The site is located on the east side of Knoll Road between Midland Road to the 
north and Morganton Road to the south.  
 
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 3 of 140
 
ii. 
Property Identification Number (PIN) & Parcel Identification (PARID): 
The two phases proposed for development are located on the following two (2) 
existing parcels: 
 
• PIN: 857200543226 (PARID: 20120323) 
• PIN: 857200614866 (PARID: 20071162) 
 
iii. 
Size of Property (in order of proposed Phasing Schedule): 
Area being developed in Phase 1: 
 
 
 
20.65 
Area being developed in Phase 2: 
 
 
 
  2.99 
Total Acreage being subdivided: 
 
 
 
23.64 acres 
 
 
 
iv. 
Zoning History: 
In 1988 the rezoning Z-15-87 was approved for 535 acres, originally called the 
Voit-Gilmore tract, now comprising the Mid-South tract. The rezoning amended 
the tract on the zoning map from RA, RS-2, and RSMH to RS-2CD for a residential 
subdivision with a golf course (see figure 1). Included in Z-15-87 was a master plan 
approving 647 dwelling units for a total gross density of 1.21 dwelling units per 
acre. The master plan included three types of residential uses: 384 Single-Family 
lots on 208.70 acres; 119 Cottages on 22.08 acres; and 144 Multi-Family Units on 
15.84 acres. Land approved for development with residential uses totaled 246.62 
acres. The golf course was approved on another 178.60 acres (133.5 acres of golf 
course and 45.1 acres of natural area adjoining the golf corridors). To date, 468 
dwelling units have gone through site plan review and have been platted.  
 
v. 
Existing Zoning:  
The site is currently zoned Residential Single Family-2 Conditional District (RS-
2CD). The standards for development within the RS-2CD can be found in the 
Conditional Rezoning Z-15-87. At the time of the rezoning, golf courses were a 
conditional use in the RS-2 district. The site is surrounded by a mix of residential 
and recreational districts. To the north is Residential Single Family-2 (RS-2). To 
the east are Facilities Resource and Recreation (FRR) as well as Residential Single 
Family-1 (RS-1). To the south is a Planned Development (PD) and to the west are 
RS-2, FRR, and General Business (GB).  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 4 of 140
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
       Figure 1: Voit-Gilmore Master Plan  
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 5 of 140
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Vicinity & Zoning Map (Mid-South Development Outlined in Purple, Proposed Area of Subdivision Shaded  
in blue)
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 6 of 140
 
IV. 
STAFF REVIEW:  
A. Application Review Dates: 
• Conditional Use Permit and Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat 
Applications Submitted: November 12, 2019 
• Application Complete: March 30, 2020  
• TRC Review: April 28, 2020  
• Notice of Planning Board Public Hearing: 
o Posted On-site: May 6, 2020  
o Mailed: May 7, 2020  
o Internet: May 5, 2020 
• Planning Board Agenda Meeting: N/A (Meeting canceled) 
• Planning Board Public Hearing: May 21, 2020 
• Notice of Town Council Public Hearing:  
o Posted On site: May 6, 2020 
o Mailed: May 26, 2020 
o Internet: May 22, 2020 
o Newspaper: May 27, 2020 
                                                                    June 3, 2020 
• Town Council Agenda Meeting: June 3, 2020 
• Town Council Public Hearing: June 9, 2020  
 
B. Criteria for Review:  
i. Conditional Use Permit (UDO §2.21.7): 
A conditional Use is permitted only if the applicant demonstrates that: 
A. The proposed conditional use shall comply with all regulations of 
the applicable zoning district and any applicable supplemental use 
regulations; 
B. The proposed conditional use shall conform to the character of the 
neighborhood in which it is located and not injure the use and 
enjoyment of property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes 
already permitted; 
C. Adequate public facilities shall be provided as set forth herein; 
D. The proposed use shall not impede the orderly Development and 
improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted within the 
zoning district or substantially diminish or impair the property 
values within the neighborhood; 
E. The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the proposed use 
shall not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, 
comfort or general welfare; and, 
F. The public interest and welfare supporting the proposed use shall 
be sufficient to outweigh individual interests that are adversely 
affected by the establishment of the proposed use. 
 
ii. Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat - UDO §2.20.5(G): 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 7 of 140
1. The application is consistent with the approved Sketch Plat, if 
applicable. 
2. The application is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, as well as 
any other adopted plans for streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, and 
public utility facilities;  
3. The proposed subdivision complies with the UDO and applicable state 
and federal regulations; 
4. The proposed subdivision, including its Lot sizes, density, access, and 
circulation, is compatible with the existing and/or permissible zoning 
and future land use of adjacent property; 
5. The proposed subdivision will not have detrimental impacts on the 
safety or viability of permitted uses on adjacent properties; and 
6. The proposed public facilities are adequate to serve the normal and 
emergency demands of the proposed Development, and to provide for 
the efficient and timely extension to serve future Development. 
 
C. Project Details and Compliance with the UDO:  
 
i. Description of Proposed Subdivision: 
The proposed subdivision is split into two phases. Phase One is a fifty-two-
lot subdivision for single-family residences that shows a disturbance area of 
4.76 acres. A requirement of subdivision in the UDO is that five percent of 
the total area of the development be dedicated towards usable open space in 
accordance with §4.9.1 Usable Open Space Required (A). There is no 
definable lot dedicated towards open space in this phase as would be 
required by §4.9.1 Usable Open Space Required (B)(5) [Usable open 
space] is part of an independent lot shown on the plan as being reserved 
for open space. However, other phases of this development may be used to 
meet the usable open space requirement as usable open space is calculated 
based on the total percentage provided throughout the development. Phase 
Two is a seven-lot subdivision for six single family residences and 
approximately 18,155 square feet of dedicated open space as the seventh 
lot. Phase Two proposes a disturbed area of 0.191 acres.   
 
ii. Existing and Proposed Public Infrastructure:  
a. Utilities:  
An existing 8” gravity sewer and a 6” water main run up to the 
subdivision phasing line for Phase One (see Figure 3). An extension of 
these mains will be required to service the 58 proposed residential lots 
for Phase One. The preliminary plat submitted for Phase One shows 
both these extensions within the proposed extension of Plantation Drive. 
The proposed extensions of public utilities will require the dedication of 
a right of way easement within the private street in order to service and 
maintain the lines. Phase Two currently has existing sewer and water 
running the length of the 60’ R/W for Plantation Drive and can be tapped 
for the proposed subdivision of 6 residential lots.  
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 8 of 140
 
On May 11, 2020 the Town Engineer provided comments (comments 
included in agency referrals and as an attachment to this report) 
concerning the water line as proposed: “In accordance with Section 
4.15.8 Fire Hydrants (F) Water lines that serve hydrants shall be at least 
six (6) inch lines and unless no other practicable alternative is available, 
no such lines shall be dead-end lines. The purpose of the looping 
requirement is to ensure redundancy in providing drinking water to the 
Town’s customers, redundancy in firefighting capability, and provide a 
means for constant water turnover to prevent stagnation of the water in 
the lines.  The proposed layout shown in the Phase 1 Plat is not 
compliant with this requirement. The developer will need to coordinate 
with Public Works staff during the site plan review process to provide 
an acceptable means of looping to the dead-end line at the Windsong 
Drive intersection.”  
 
b. Stormwater 
The preliminary plat for Phase One shows existing storm drainage in a 
15’ easement to the north of the proposed subdivision and proposed 
drainage continuing along Plantation Drive to the south where there is a 
storm drainage pipe drawn with a rip-rap dissipater exceeding the 
southern phasing boundary line. The proposed drainage as drawn does 
not show how stormwater will be managed as there is no area designated 
on the preliminary plat for a storm water control measure. The 
preliminary plat for Phase Two shows existing storm drainage within a 
20’ easement that terminates at the rear of the proposed lots 84 and 85. 
The preliminary plat for Phase Two also does not have a designated area 
for storm water management. In an email response (see attachments) to 
an official communication for the completeness review of the 
submission, dated March 31, 2020, the applicant’s explanation of their 
stormwater management proposal for Phase Two was that the intention 
was to allow stormwater runoff to sheet flow across the lots and 
infiltrate the ground. The response also specifies that whatever does not 
infiltrate the ground will run into an existing pond at the rear of the lots.  
 
On May 11, 2020 the Town Engineer provided comments (comments 
included in agency referrals and as an attachment to this report) 
concerning the proposed storm water management: “In accordance with 
Section 4.14.3 Storm Water Management (3) The post-development 
runoff rate shall be equal to or less than the pre-development rate from 
the design storm or a ten (10) year storm event. The intent of this 
section, as described in the UDO, “All Developments shall be 
constructed and maintained so that adjacent properties are not 
unreasonably burdened with surface waters as a result of such 
Developments”. The developer will need to work with the Town 
Engineer during the site plan review process to provide acceptable 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 9 of 140
methods of stormwater control with supporting calculations for both 
phases of the project.” The Town Engineer also specified that his 
comments “(…) specifically address to items related to the Public 
Works review. This is not intended to imply that all other requirements 
have been met or that the developer was not planning to meet them as 
part of the engineering plan submittal, just that based on the information 
submitted, it is unclear how these two specific (comments relating to the 
water line extension and storm water) are going to be met. As with any 
site plan, the expectation is that all of the requirements described in the 
UDO will be met as part of the site design, and will be reviewed in more 
detail during the site plan review process.” 
 
c. Streets   
The preliminary plat for Phase One proposes an extension of Plantation 
Drive. The Powell Bill Map lists Plantation Drive as a private street (See 
figures 4 and 5). Plantation Drive as built up to the phasing line is a 
private street built to the town standard for a residential sub-collector in 
regards to the width of the travel lanes and its use of curbing. However, 
Plantation Drive as built is not built to the standards of the cross section 
for a 60’ R/W as shown in Appendix I: Street Cross Sections of the 
Town of Southern Pines Unified Development Ordinance in that no 
sidewalks have been built. The preliminary plat also shows a residential 
local street ending in a cul-de-sac that is currently proposed to be named 
Ambassador Court. Neither of the proposed streets specifies the 
proposed design standard or R/W to service the extension of public 
utilities. If the applicant is requesting to extend Plantation Drive and 
build Ambassador Court to the existing standards found for residential 
local and sub-collectors in the Mid-South development then it must be 
specifically stated in the application materials submitted. If a deviation 
from the design standards as specified in §4.11.10 Street Width, 
Sidewalk and Drainage Requirements in Subdivisions and Appendix I: 
Street Cross Sections of the UDO will be requested then it must 
specifically be granted by the Town Council in accordance with 
§4.11.10 (A) Street Width, Sidewalk and Drainage Requirements in 
Subdivisions: Street rights-of-way shall be designed and constructed in 
conformance with the provisions [herein] unless otherwise allowed for 
by the Town Council as part of a Conditional Use Permit or Planned 
Development Application. The preliminary plat for Phase Two shows 
an existing street for Plantation Drive, however the note on the 
preliminary plat calls Plantation Drive a 60’ Public R/W without the 
specification that Plantation Drive is a private street. The preliminary 
plat must specify that Plantation Drive is a private street in accordance 
with §4.11.14 (D) Private Streets in Subdivisions: The recorded plat of 
any subdivision shall clearly identify private streets.  
 
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 10 of 140
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 Utilities Infrastructure  
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 11 of 140
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         Figure 4 Streets for Phase One  
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 12 of 140
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         Figure 5 Streets for Phase Two  
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 13 of 140
 
d. Access  
The Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) designates the access for ingress and 
egress to Phase One from Plantation Drive and designates Windsong 
Drive as an existing asphalt roadway to serve as the emergency access. 
On April 24, 2020 the Town Fire Marshall (comments included in 
agency referrals and as an attachment to this report) provided comments 
stating that Windsong Drive would not be considered an emergency 
access as it is listed unless improvements were made to the existing 
road. In its current state it is impassable to large trucks and additional 
access will be required. The suggestion was made that West Michigan 
could be another option and may be a better option due to it being 
shorter in length than Windsong Drive. Access to Phase Two is also 
provided by Plantation Drive and is an existing private street.  
 
On May 11, 2020 the Town Engineer provided comments (comments 
included in agency referrals and as an attachment to this report) 
concerning his review of the TIA: “The TIA recommends that actions 
be taken to maximize sight distance. In accordance with 4.12.5 (D) 
“Safety. Access points shall be designed to provide for adequate sight 
distance and appropriate facilities to accommodate acceleration and 
deceleration of site traffic pursuant to section 4.11.5.” Section 4.11.5 
references appendix C of the UDO, but Appendix C only provides the 
minimum sight distance required for a design speed of 30 MPH. Knoll 
road uses the Town standard speed limit of 35MPH which means the 
design speed of the road is 40MPH. The Engineering plans need to 
include improvements to the existing intersection of Knoll Road and 
Palmer to ensure that appropriate sight distance is provided for a design 
speed of 40MPH.”  
 
The applicant submitted images of the current intersection of Palmer 
Drive and Knoll Road, as well as a diagram of the intersection with 10’ 
by 70’ site distance triangles overlaid on an aerial image. However, staff 
is not able to identify any explanation of the images and diagram or 
statement(s) regarding that which the images and diagram are 
attempting to conclusively demonstrate. 
 
e. Buffers 
Both phases of the proposed subdivision are located on the eastern 
extremity of the development. The Voigt-Gilmore master plan shows a 
vegetated buffer running along the outer boundary of the Mid-South 
East End development. As such, both preliminary plats show a twenty-
five-foot undisturbed buffer between the proposed subdivided lots and 
the adjacent properties zoned RS-1 and FRR. The applicants should be 
aware now that this buffer shall be planted in accordance with the 
standards for buffers as set forth in UDO §4.3.4. Should any additional 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 14 of 140
plantings be required to address opacity standards for separation buffers, 
they will be addressed at site plan review. 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 15 of 140
 
 
Figure 6 Comprehensive Land Use Plan (CLRP)
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 16 of 140
 
iii. Compliance with the Comprehensive Land Use Plan (CLRP) and other 
Town adopted plans. 
a. Compliance with the CLRP 
The area proposed to be subdivided is designated as Residential/ Golf 
on the Future Land Use Map. The Residential/Golf designation applies 
to all “…areas that include public or private golf courses and residences. 
This category may accommodate a single family or attached dwellings 
at a variety of densities, recreational facilities in addition to the golf 
course, limited guest accommodations, and limited commercial services 
intended to serve residents of and visitors to the development.” The 
applicant has provided a narrative addressing a justification for 
compliance of the proposed subdivision with the CLRP. The applicant’s 
Conditional Use Permit justification narrative are attached to this memo.  
 
b. Compliance with Other Adopted Plans  
The Town of Southern Pines Comprehensive Recreation & Parks 
Master Plan addresses future access to recreation facilities and 
pedestrian and bicycle connectivity in the Town of Southern Pines. 
Although the Mill Creek Access Trail runs along the western extremity 
of the Mid-South-East End development, the currently proposed 
subdivision does not contain or is adjacent to any area that the trail runs 
through. Additionally, there are no recommendations for the Mid South-
East End development within the Comprehensive Recreation & Parks 
Master Plan.  
 
iv. General Staff Comments  
• The specific review process and criteria for a Conditional Use Permit 
and a Major Subdivision are found in §2.21.3 and § 2.20 of the UDO. 
The applicant has submitted narratives addressing compliance with the 
criteria, copies of which are attached to this report. 
 
• Pursuant to UDO §2.20.5(J)(4), an approved Preliminary Plat is vested 
for two (2) years, but may be vested longer if phased. The same section 
of the UDO as well as NCGS §160A-385.1(b), (c) and (d) allows a 
maximum vesting period of five (5) years for phased development 
plans. The applicant has addressed the proposed phasing in the 
application narrative submitted with the Conditional Use Permit. The 
applicant has requested that phases be allowed to develop in any order 
or concurrently.  
 
• Mid-South Phases One and Two will require site plan review by the 
Town of Southern Pines Technical Review Committee. Once site plans 
for each phase are complete, the required infrastructure must be 
installed per the approved plans or waived by the Town Manager 
pursuant to a Subdivision Improvement Agreement (UDO §2.20.7) or 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 17 of 140
addressed through a Development Agreement (UDO §2.20.8). Only 
upon completion or other satisfaction of the required infrastructure and 
approval of said infrastructure installation by the Town may the 
applicant apply for Major Subdivision Final Plat approval. 
 
A. Outside Agency Comments: 
 
A request for comments from agencies was emailed to representatives of 
the Town of Southern Pines Engineering, Streets, Utilities, Fire and 
Recreation & Parks Departments as well as representatives of the North 
Carolina Department of Transportation, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and 
the Regional Land Use Advisory Commission on April 30, 2020.  
 
o Comments were received from the Town of Southern Pines Town 
Engineer on May 11, 2020. The comments state as follows: 
 
1. In accordance with Section 4.15.8 Fire Hydrants (F) Water lines 
that serve hydrants shall be at least six (6) inch lines and unless 
no other practicable alternative is available, no such lines shall 
be dead-end lines. The purpose of the looping requirement is to 
ensure redundancy in providing drinking water to the Town’s 
customers, redundancy in firefighting capability, and provide a 
means for constant water turnover to prevent stagnation of the 
water in the lines.  The proposed layout shown in the Phase 1 
Plat is not compliant with this requirement. The developer will 
need to coordinate with Public Works staff during the site plan 
review process to provide an acceptable means of looping to the 
dead end line at the Windsong Drive intersection. 
 
2. In accordance with Section 4.14.3 Storm Water Management (3) 
The post-development runoff rate shall be equal to or less than 
the pre-development rate from the design storm or a ten (10) year 
storm event. The intent of this section, as described in the UDO, 
“All Developments shall be constructed and maintained so that 
adjacent properties are not unreasonably burdened with surface 
waters as a result of such Developments”. The developer will 
need to work with the Town Engineer during the site plan review 
process to provide acceptable methods of stormwater control 
with supporting calculations for both phases of the project. 
 
3. The above items 1 & 2 are specifically address to items related 
to the Public Works review. This is not intended to imply that 
all other requirements have been met or that the developer was 
not planning to meet them as part of the engineering plan 
submittal, just that based on the information submitted, it is 
unclear how these two specific are going to be met. As with any 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 18 of 140
site plan, the expectation is that all of the requirements described 
in the UDO will be met as part of the site design, and will be 
reviewed in more detail during the site plan review process. 
 
4. The TIA recommends that actions be taken to maximize sight 
distance. In accordance with 4.12.5 (D) “Safety. Access points 
shall be designed to provide for adequate sight distance and 
appropriate facilities to accommodate acceleration and 
deceleration of site traffic pursuant to section 4.11.5.” Section 
4.11.5 references appendix C of the UDO, but Appendix C only 
provides the minimum sight distance required for a design speed 
of 30 MPH. Knoll road uses the Town standard speed limit of 
35MPH which means the design speed of the road is 40MPH. 
The Engineering plans need to include improvements to the 
existing intersection of Knoll Road and Palmer to ensure that 
appropriate sight distance is provided for a design speed of 
40MPH.  
 
o Comments from the N.C. Sandhills Sub-Office of the U.S. Fish and 
Wildlife Service were received on May 7, 2020. The comments state 
as follows: 
 
“Due to the proximity of known active red‐cockaded 
woodpecker clusters, the project proponent should have this 
property surveyed by personnel experienced in management 
and monitoring of the species prior to the removal of any The 
results of this survey should be sent to the US Fish and Wildlife 
Service office located in Southern Pines, NC for review.” 
 
The applicant does not address “Endangered Species” in the 
Conditional Use Permit Justification Narrative that is attached to 
this memo.  
 
o Comments were received from the Town of Southern Pines Town 
Fire Marshall on April 24, 2020. The comments state as follows:  
 
“The only thing I would say is that Windsong Drive would not 
be considered an “Emergency Access” as they have it listed 
unless they plan to make improvements. In its current state it is 
impassable to large trucks and additional access will be 
required for this development. West Michigan could be another 
option and shorter.”  
 
o Any comments received after the publishing of this report will be 
forwarded to the Town Council at the public hearing as an exhibit. 
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 19 of 140
V. 
ATTACHMENTS: 
 
The following materials are provided as attachments to this staff memorandum: 
 
1. Attachment A: Findings of fact for Conditional Use Permit CU-03-19 
2. Attachment B: Findings of Fact for Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat S-48-19 
3. Conditional Use Permit Application 
4. Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat Application 
5. Appointment of Agent  
6. Conditional Use Permit Narrative  
7. Conditional Use Permit Justification  
8. Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat Narrative 
9. Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) 
10. Preliminary Plat for Phase One  
11. Preliminary Plat for Phase Two 
12. Sight Distance Diagram  
13. Sight Distance Image (left view)  
14. Sight Distance Image (right view)  
15. Town Engineer Comments  
16. Fire Marshall Comments  
17. RLUAC Comments  
18. Email Communication from Applicant to Staff  
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 20 of 140
TOWN COUNCIL ACTION: 
 
TOWN COUNCIL ACTION FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: 
To either approve or deny a Conditional Use Permit application, the Town Council 
shall make findings of fact and conclusions to the applicable standards. The Town 
Council shall first vote on whether the application is complete and whether the facts 
presented are relevant to the case.  The Town Council shall then vote on whether the 
application complies with the criteria as set forth in Section 2.21.7(A-F) Criteria for 
a Conditional Use Permit. The Town Council may choose one of the following motions 
or any alternative they wish: 
 
I move to: 
 
1. Adopt Attachment “A” of the staff report as our Findings of Fact regarding the 
proposed Conditional Use Permit CU-03-19. 
 
2. Adopt Attachment “A” of the staff report as our Findings of Fact regarding the 
proposed 
Conditional 
Use 
Permit 
CU-03-19 
with 
the 
following 
changes__________________. 
 
Next, the Town Council may vote on whether to approve, deny, or approve with 
conditions the proposed Conditional Use Permit.  The Town Council may choose one 
of the following motions, or any alternative they wish: 
 
I move to: 
 
1. Approve the Conditional Use Permit CU-03-19. 
2. Deny the Conditional Use Permit CU-03-19 
3. Approve the Conditional Use Permit for CU-03-19 with the following additional 
conditions…. 
Planning Board Recommended Conditions:  
1. If Windsong Drive is maintained as the emergency access for phase one, the 
recommended improvements from the Town Fire Marshall must be completed as they 
concern safety and security as well as the built standard of the street. If West Michigan 
Avenue is used as an emergency access, then the recommended improvements from the 
Town Fire Marshall must be completed as they concern safety and security and the 
built standard of the road.  
  
2. Based upon the recommendations made by the N.C. Sandhills Sub-Office of the U.S. 
Fish and Wildlife Service Town Council requires that the developer have the property 
surveyed by personnel experienced in management and monitoring of the species prior 
to the removal of any trees and that the results of this survey be sent to the US Fish and 
Wildlife Service office located in Southern Pines, NC for review prior to administrative 
site plan approval.  
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 21 of 140
 
3. A waiver be granted for the requirement of street trees and sidewalks as would 
otherwise be required by the design standards in Appendix I: Street Cross Sections of 
the Unified Development Ordinance on the proposed extensions of Plantation Drive 
and Claret Court.  
 
TOWN COUNCIL ACTION FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISON: 
 
To either approve or deny a Preliminary Plat application, the Town Council shall 
make findings of fact and conclusions to the applicable standards. The Town Council 
shall first vote on whether the application is complete and whether the facts presented 
are relevant to the case.  The Town Council shall then vote on whether the application 
complies with the criteria as set forth in Section 2.20.5(G) Criteria for a Preliminary 
Plat, Criteria 1-6.  The Town Council shall choose one of the following motions or any 
alternative they wish: 
 
I move to: 
 
3. Adopt Attachment “B” of the staff report as our Findings of Fact regarding the 
proposed Preliminary Plat S-48-19. 
 
4. Adopt Attachment “B” of the staff report as our Findings of Fact regarding the 
proposed 
Preliminary 
Plat 
S-48-19 
with 
the 
following 
changes__________________. 
 
Next, the Town Council  shall vote on whether to approve, deny or approve with 
conditions the proposed Preliminary Plat.  The Town Council shall choose one of the 
following motions, or any alternative they wish: 
 
I move to: 
 
4. Approve the Preliminary Plat S-48-19. 
 
5. Deny the Preliminary Plat S-48-19 
 
6. Approve the Preliminary Plat for S-48-19 with the following additional 
conditions…. 
 
 
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 22 of 140
ATTACHMENT “A” 
Draft Town Council Findings of Fact 
Conditional Use Permit Application CU-03-19 
 
Finding of Fact #1: 
 
The Town Council finds that the application is complete and that the facts submitted are relevant 
to the case because the request for Conditional Use Permit approval has met the specified submittal 
requirements as required in the Town of Southern Pines UDO Appendices and the evidence 
submitted was sworn testimony by qualified experts or provided through substantiated 
documentation. 
 
Finding of Fact #2: 
 
The Town Coucnil finds that the application complies with UDO §2.21.7 Criteria for a Conditional 
Use Permit, Criteria A-F, in that: 
 
A. The proposed conditional use shall comply with all regulations of the applicable 
zoning district and any applicable supplemental use regulations; 
The Town Council finds that application for CU-03-19 complies with the RS-2CD district 
and the development standards approved in the Voigt-Gilmore Master Plan. The applicant 
must adhere to the applicable development standards established in the UDO and no 
evidence of extraordinary circumstances which may allow the standards to be modified has 
been presented.    
 
B. The proposed conditional use shall conform to the character of the neighborhood in 
which it is located and not injure the use and enjoyment of property in the immediate 
vicinity for the purposes already permitted;  
The Town Council finds that the proposed development is in character with the existing 
development and the proposed 58 additional lots are below the 647 residential lots 
approved with Z-15-87. The proposed development is infill development that is compatible 
with the context of the surrounding neighborhood and does not exceed the existing 
approved uses or density.  
 
C. Adequate public facilities shall be provided as set forth herein;  
The Town Council finds that adequate facilities for sewer and water are in place based on 
information provided by the town and the applicant. The applicant has shown existing 
services for water and sewer within Phase Two and will need to extend utilities to serve 
the lots in Phase One. Although the Town Council finds that adequate ingress and egress 
has been addressed for both phases, the Town Council finds that the emergency access 
proposed in Phase One as the existing asphalt road Windsong Drive is not an adequate 
transportation facility for Emergency access. The proposed stormwater management will 
be addressed at TRC during final site plan review and must comply with the current 
development standards.   
  
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 23 of 140
D. The proposed use shall not impede the orderly development and improvement of 
surrounding property for uses permitted within the zoning district or substantially 
diminish or impair the property values within the neighborhood; 
The Town Council finds that the proposed subdivision will likely not have detrimental 
impacts on the permitted uses of adjacent properties or impair property values because it 
is consistent with the original master plan and approved uses for the RS-2CD.  The Town 
Council also finds that the proposed development is located where public utilities currently 
exist and therefore does not impede the orderly development of surrounding property.  
   
E. The establishment, maintenance or operation for the proposed use shall not be 
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort, or general welfare; and 
The Town Council finds that the proposed subdivision will not have detrimental impacts 
on the safety, comfort or general welfare because this subdivision will be required to adhere 
to all site development standards and building standards, including, but not limited to 
compliance with the building and fire code.  The applicants will be required to meet all 
conditions imposed as well as meet all regulatory measures set forth at final site plan 
review.   
 
F. The public interest and welfare supporting the proposed use shall be sufficient to 
outweigh individual interests that are adversely affected by the establishment of the 
proposed use; 
The Town Council finds that the proposed subdivision complies with applicable standards 
and regulations found within the Town of Southern Pines UDO that are based on the public 
interest and welfare.  
 
 
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 24 of 140
ATTACHMENT “B” 
Draft Town Council Findings of Fact 
Preliminary Plat Application S-48-19 
 
Finding of Fact #1: 
 
The Town Council finds that the application is complete and that the facts submitted are relevant 
to the case because the request for Preliminary Plat approval has met the specified submittal 
requirements as required in the Town of Southern Pines UDO Appendices and the evidence 
submitted was sworn testimony by qualified experts or provided through substantiated 
documentation. 
 
Finding of Fact #2: 
 
The Town Council finds that the application complies with UDO §2.20.5(G) Criteria for a 
Preliminary Plat, Criteria 1-6, in that: 
 
1. The application is consistent with the approved Sketch Plat, if applicable;  
The Town Council finds that the proposed Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat involves the 
subdivision of less than the entire contiguous land area of the parcel being subdivided, and 
therefore must have a Sketch plat. Per UDO §2.20.4(B) a Sketch Plat may be processed 
concurrently with a Preliminary Plat. As part of the CUP and Major Subdivision Preliminary 
Plat applications, the applicants have provided the materials required for review of a Sketch 
Plat per UDO Appendix A. The Town Council finds that per UDO §2.20.4(G), the proposed 
subdivision is consistent with the Town of Southern Pines Comprehensive Long Range Plan 
(CLRP), zoning map and the approved “Voigt Gilmore Master Plan.” The Phasing Schedule 
provided generally provides for the orderly development of lots and each phase may stand 
alone if development occurs in accordance with all applicable Town of Southern Pines design 
and construction standards. The Town Council also finds that the project is located in an 
appropriate area of Town for the reasons described in the Findings of Fact previously adopted 
with approval of the CUP.    
 
2. The application is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, as well as any other adopted 
plans for streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, and public utility facilities;  
The Town Council finds that the proposed Preliminary Plat is generally consistent with the 
standards set forth in the CLRP because different densities of residential development are 
proposed in a manner that is consistent with the RS2-CD. Streets, lot density, and open spaces 
are planned as part of the approved Voigt-Gilmore Master Plan but public water utilities will 
need to be designed with looped systems and approved following the Town’s Site Plan review 
process (UDO §2.48). Conceptual stormwater management plans have been provided for one 
out of the two proposed phases, but proper stormwater management facilities will be required 
and reviewed following the Town’s Site Plan review process (UDO §2.48).  
 
3. The proposed subdivision complies with the UDO and applicable state and federal 
regulations;  
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 25 of 140
The proposed subdivision is part of an existing residential development. The Town Council 
recognizes that development standards at the time of the rezoning and phased subdivision of 
the Mid-South East-End tract have changed and therefore the proposed subdivision has been 
reviewed based on the criteria established in the most recent adopted Unified Development 
Ordinance. The project will not be granted Site Plan approval per UDO §2.48 without 
necessary approvals from applicable state and federal agencies. The burden of demonstrating 
compliance with applicable state and federal regulations rests with the applicant per UDO 
§2.5.6.  
  
4. The proposed subdivision, including its Lot sizes, density, access, and circulation, is 
compatible with the existing and / or permissible zoning and future land use of adjacent 
property; 
The proposed subdivision is zoned Residential Single Family-2 Conditional District, a mixed-
use zoning classification with a variety of approved residential product types and densities. 
The Town Council finds that the proposed subdivision is compatible and consistent with this 
zoning classification with regard to the dimensional and density regulations.  The proposed 
subdivision is also compatible with the zoning and future land uses of adjacent property.  The 
surrounding properties are developed with residential land uses with a similar diversity of 
densities and open spaces. The Town Council finds that the current design for emergency 
access in Phase One is not adequate access for internal vehicular circulation of emergency 
services and waste removal vehicles.  Access to the subdivision was assessed in the Traffic 
Impact Analysis (TIA) that were submitted by the applicant. The TIA was reviewed by both 
the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT), the Town of Southern Pines 
Town Engineer, and the Town of Southern Pines Fire Marshall and recommendations were 
made by the Town Engineer and the Town Fire Marshall.   
 
5. The proposed subdivision will not have detrimental impacts on the safety or viability of 
permitted uses on adjacent properties; and 
The Town Council finds that the proposed subdivision will not have detrimental impacts on 
the safety or viability of permitted uses on adjacent properties because the land use is 
compatible with existing and allowable uses on adjacent properties per the zoning map and the 
development is consistent with the CLRP. During the process of reviewing engineering plans 
for Midsouth East End, per UDO §2.20.6 and UDO §2.48, the site distance requirements for 
the intersection of Palmer Drive and Knoll Road will be assessed in detail and physical 
improvements to the intersection may be required prior to approval of a Final Plat.    
 
6. The proposed public facilities are adequate to serve the normal and emergency demands 
of the proposed development, and to provide for the efficient and timely extension to 
serve future development; 
The Town Council finds that public water and sewer utilities are available and can be extended 
to serve the project. Looped public water lines and adequate stormwater facilities will be 
verified prior to approval of site plans for any of the individual phases of the proposed 
subdivision. Site access is provided via Plantation Drive for both phases. An improved 
emergency access for Windsong Drive will be required for emergency access prior to site plan 
approval.  
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 26 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 27 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 28 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 29 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 30 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 31 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 32 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 33 of 140
 
 
 
                                              KOONTZJONESDesign 
                                                                                                                                                          LAND PLANNING  LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE  
 
 
 
 
 
150 PAGE STREET 
SOUTHERN PINES, NC 28387 
P: 910.639.4058 
 
MIDSOUTH PROPERTY 
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT NARRATIVE 
 
The development of the property described as the Midsouth Property in the submitted exhibits is an 
approved mixed-residential subdivision, rezoned in 1988, located on the south side of Midland Road 
between Midland Road and Morganton Road. The 535.58-acre property is zoned RS-2 CD, which is 
primarily a single-family residential zoning district with conditional approval for a golf course; the 
current requests involve 62.5 acres of the 535.5 acre tract. The RS-2 base zoning allows low-density 
residential uses as stated in Section 3.5.4 of the Town of Southern Pines Unified Development 
Ordinance.   
 
This conditional use permit application proposes lots in two areas of the approved Conditional Use 
Permit: 
• 
Phase 1: Plat fifty-two (52) lots and open space lot along the extension of Plantation Drive, south 
of Claret Court. Residential lot sizes will vary as permitted in the previously approved conditional 
zoning. 
• 
Phase 2: Plat six (6) single-family lots and 18,155 square feet of open space on a parcel located 
east of the intersection of Plantation Drive with Hadley Court; request includes rerouting of a 
storm drainage easement. Residential lot sizes will vary as permitted in the previously approved 
conditional zoning. 
 
In September of 1988, a conditional use permit was approved which permitted a total of 647 dwelling 
units of mixed residential types. To date, 468 residential dwellings or lots have been approved through 
previous CUPs.  
 
This Conditional Use Permit request plats 58 new single-family lots, in addition to open space. This 
requires a Conditional Use Permit. With the addition of the 58 lots, the total approved/platted lots will 
increase to 526, leaving the ability to develop an additional 121 residential units with a later CUP 
application. The applicant requests that phases can be developed in any order, or concurrently.  
 
The development will meet the approved development standards for the RS-2 CD district and any other 
Town of Southern Pines UDO requirements. The approved open space amount of 128.3 acres will still be 
maintained with as permitted in the original conditional district.  
 
Adequate water and sewer service have been provided by the Town of Southern Pines to service this 
development. Utilities are currently along the streets; all utilities on the site will be located 
underground.    
 
The descriptions and conditions described above will apply to the entire project as indicated in the 
Conditional Use Permit application and preliminary plat.   
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 34 of 140
EXHIBIT A 
 
Midsouth Property 
Conditional Use Permit Justification  
 
Below are listed the six (6) criteria required to approve a Conditional Use Permit application as described in Section 
2.21.7 of the Town of Southern Pines UDO.  Following the individual criteria is an explanation, indicated in red, 
describing how the project demonstrates compliance with each of these criteria. 
A Conditional Use is permitted only if the Applicant demonstrates that:  
 
(A) The proposed conditional use shall comply with all regulations of the applicable zoning district and any 
applicable supplemental use regulations;  
The proposed development will comply with all regulations of the RS-2 CD zoning district and any 
applicable supplemental use regulations. All single-family lots created will meet the standards specified in 
the RS-2 CD district and provide appropriate setbacks for the RS-2 CD zoning district. Access will meet the 
Town’s requirements. 
 
(B) The proposed conditional use shall conform to the character of the neighborhood in which it is located 
and not injure the use and enjoyment of property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already 
permitted;  
The conditional use meets the standards of the zoning district and is in character with the surrounding 
properties. The proposed single-family detached units are still below the 647 total residential units 
permitted under the property’s zoning. 
 
(C) Adequate public facilities shall be provided as set forth herein;  
 
Public water and sewer utilities are readily available for the project, any cost of which will be borne by the 
 
developer. Lots will have adequate access to accommodate emergency and waste removal vehicles. 
 
(D) The proposed use shall not impede the orderly Development and improvement of surrounding property 
for uses permitted within the zoning district or substantially diminish or impair the property values within 
the neighborhood;  
This project will not impede the development of surrounding properties as it is in conformance with the 
surrounding development and zoning classifications as described in Item B of this exhibit. 
 
(E) The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the proposed use shall not be detrimental to or 
endanger the public health, safety, comfort or general welfare; and 
This residential neighborhood will continue the existing development pattern in the neighborhood and 
will conform to all development standards of the UDO and engineering requirements of the Town. As a 
result, the use will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or general welfare 
of the surrounding neighborhood. 
 
(F) The public interest and welfare supporting the proposed use shall be sufficient to outweigh individual 
interests that are adversely affected by the establishment of the proposed use. 
The conditional use is in compliance with the established development pattern and is in context with the 
underlying zoning district.  This project is also consistent with the goals and objectives of the 
Comprehensive Long Range Plan (CLRP) and establishes a development pattern that is in context with the 
surrounding neighborhood and the projects in this area of Southern Pines.  
 
The development pattern also meets the land use goals defined by the CLRP by adding development 
where public utilities are available and developing infill locations near downtown Southern Pines. 
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 35 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 36 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 37 of 140
KIMLEY-HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC 
  
 
 
 
 
NC License #F-0102 
 
kimley-horn.com 
421 Fayetteville Street, Suite 600, Raleigh, NC  27601 
919 677 2000 
 
March 5, 2020 
Bob Levy 
Talamore Family 
723 Talamore Drive 
Ambler, PA 19002 
RE: Mid South – East End, Southern Pines, NC – Traffic Impact Analysis 
 
Dear Mr. Levy, 
Kimley-Horn has performed a Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) for the proposed 58 additional single family 
dwelling units within the Mid South development in Southern Pines, NC. The homes will be accessed 
via the existing street network and the extension of  Plantation Drive. The development has a projected 
build-out year of 2025. 
This report presents trip generation, distribution, traffic analyses, and recommendations for 
transportation improvements required to meet anticipated traffic demands in conjunction with the 
proposed development in the projected (2025) build-out year and the projected (2030) ten-year horizon 
condition per the Town’s UDO. The site location is shown on Figure 1, and Figures 2A and 2B show 
the preliminary site plans. The existing roadway laneage at the study intersections is shown on Figure 
3. 
Existing and Background Traffic 
AM and PM peak hour turning movement counts performed on February 4, 2020 at the following 
intersections: 
 
S Knoll Road at Palmer Drive 
 
S Knoll Road at Felton Capel Lane at Voit Gilmore Lane (roundabout) 
 
Felton Capel Lane at Plantation Drive 
Based on historic daily traffic volumes in the area, an annual growth factor of 1% was applied to existing 
volumes for the 2025 and 2030 study year scenarios.  
 
Peak hour existing and background traffic volumes for the year 2025, which include historic growth 
traffic are shown on Figures 4 and 5. For the study year 2030, 2025 background and 2030 background 
traffic volumes are shown on Figures 6 and 7.  
Trip Generation 
The trip generation potential of the development was determined using the traffic generation rates 
published in the ITE Trip Generation Handbook (Institute of Transportation Engineers, Tenth Edition, 
2017). Table 1 summarizes the estimated traffic generation potential for the site.  
 
 
 
3/5/2020
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 38 of 140
Page 2 
kimley-horn.com 
421 Fayetteville Street, Suite 600, Raleigh, NC  27601 
919 677 2000 
 
Table 1 
ITE Traffic Generation (Vehicles) 
Land 
Use 
Code 
Land Use 
Intensity 
Daily 
AM Peak 
Hour 
PM Peak 
Hour 
In 
Out 
In 
Out 
In 
Out 
210 
Single Family 
Detached Housing 
58 
d.u. 
315 
315 
12 
34 
38 
22 
 
Table 1 shows that the site has the potential to generate 630 new trips on a typical weekday with 46 
new trips during the AM peak hour and 60 new trips in the PM peak hour.  
It should be noted that the traffic counts performed at the Mid South driveways indicate that the homes 
in Mid South currently generate approximately 26% fewer AM peak hour trips and 48% fewer PM peak 
hour trips than ITE trip generation rates would suggest. Therefore, the analysis presented herein is 
expected to be very conservative. 
Trip Distribution and Assignment 
The proposed generated trips were assigned to the surrounding roadway network according to the 
distribution below. The directional distribution and assignment were based on existing Mid South travel 
patterns. 
 
15% to/from the north along Palmer Drive 
 
35% to/from the east along S Knoll Road 
 
20% to/from the west along Voit Gilmore Lane 
 
30% to/from the south along Felton Capel Lane 
The site traffic distribution and percent assignment is shown on Figure 8.  
The attached Figures 9 and 10 show the year 2025 AM and PM peak hour site and build-out traffic 
volumes at the study intersections, respectively. Figures 11 and 12 show the year 2030 AM and PM 
peak hour site and build-out traffic volumes at the study, respectively.  
Capacity Analysis 
Capacity analyses were performed using Synchro Version 10.3 and SIDRA Intersection 8 software. 
Existing peak hour factors (PHF) were used for the existing traffic condition at the study intersections. 
Synchro intersection level-of-service (LOS) reports are attached. The LOS for the study intersections 
are summarized in Table 2.  
 
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 39 of 140
Page 3 
kimley-horn.com 
421 Fayetteville Street, Suite 600, Raleigh, NC  27601 
919 677 2000 
 
Table 2 
Level-of-Service Summary 
Condition 
AM Peak Hour 
LOS (Delay) 
PM Peak Hour 
LOS (Delay) 
S Knoll Road at Palmer Drive (Unsignalized) 
Existing (2020) Traffic 
NB – B (14.1) 
SB – B (12.1) 
EBL – A (7.8) 
WBL – A (7.8) 
NB – B (13.2) 
SB – B (12.4) 
EBL – A (7.8) 
WBL – A (7.8) 
Background (2025) Traffic  
NB – B (14.7) 
SB – B (12.4) 
EBL – A (7.8) 
WBL – A (7.8) 
NB – B (13.6) 
SB – B (12.6) 
EBL – A (7.8) 
WBL – A (7.8) 
Build-out (2025) Traffic 
NB – C (16.3) 
SB – B (12.8) 
EBL – A (7.8) 
WBL – A (7.8) 
NB – B (14.8) 
SB – B (13.6) 
EBL – A (7.8) 
WBL – A (7.9) 
Background (2030) Traffic  
NB – C (15.4) 
SB – B (12.8) 
EBL – A (7.9) 
WBL – A (7.8) 
NB – B (14.1) 
SB – B (13.0) 
EBL – A (7.9) 
WBL – A (7.9) 
Build-out (2030) Traffic 
NB – C (17.3) 
SB – B (13.3) 
EBL – A (7.9) 
WBL – A (7.9) 
NB – C (15.4) 
SB – B (13.9) 
EBL – A (7.9) 
WBL – A (7.9) 
S Knoll Road at Felton Capel Lane at Voit Gilmore Lane (Roundabout) 
Existing (2020) Traffic 
A (8.1) 
v/c = 0.480 
A (6.1) 
v/c = 0.346 
Background (2025) Traffic  
A (8.6) 
v/c = 0.509 
A (6.3) 
v/c = 0.369 
Build-out (2025) Traffic 
A (8.8) 
v/c = 0.517 
A (6.5) 
v/c = 0.383 
Background (2030) Traffic  
A (9.2) 
v/c = 0.539 
A (6.6) 
v/c = 0.392 
Build-out (2030) Traffic 
A (9.4) 
v/c = 0.547 
A (6.8) 
v/c = 0.406 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 40 of 140
Page 4 
kimley-horn.com 
421 Fayetteville Street, Suite 600, Raleigh, NC  27601 
919 677 2000 
 
Table 2 
Level-of-Service Summary (cont.) 
Condition 
AM Peak Hour 
LOS (Delay) 
PM Peak Hour 
LOS (Delay) 
Felton Capel Lane at Plantation Drive (Unsignalized) 
Existing (2020) Traffic 
WB – C (16.7) 
SBL – A (8.2) 
WB – C (15.3) 
SBL – A (8.1) 
Background (2025) Traffic  
WB – C (17.7) 
SBL – A (8.3) 
WB – C (16.1) 
SBL – A (8.1) 
Build-out (2025) Traffic 
WB – C (18.4) 
SBL – A (8.3) 
WB – C (16.6) 
SBL – A (8.2) 
Background (2030) Traffic  
WB – C (19.0) 
SBL – A (8.3) 
WB – C (16.9) 
SBL – A (8.2) 
Build-out (2030) Traffic 
WB – C (19.7) 
SBL – A (9.4) 
WB – C (17.5) 
SBL – A (8.2) 
 
Analysis indicates that all study intersections are expected to operate at an acceptable LOS in the 
projected 2025 and 2030 build-out traffic conditions. 
Crash Data Analysis 
Crash data reports were obtained from NCDOT for the study intersection of S Knoll Road at Palmer 
Drive for the period from January 2015 through December 2019. There were 7 reported crashes 
identified at or in the vicinity of this intersection in the provided data period. Three crashes were reported 
as Class C crashes and four as property-damage only crashes, resulting in a calculated crash severity 
index of 4.17. There were no significant crash patterns identified based on the provided data, and there 
is no reason to expect that traffic associated with this development will increase crash rates at this 
intersection. All provided crash data reports are included in the Appendix. 
Conclusions 
We understand that Mid South residents have requested that a traffic signal be installed at the 
intersection of S Knoll Road at Palmer Drive. However, it is unlikely that a traffic signal is or will be 
warranted at this location based on the existing and projected traffic volumes or the results of the crash 
data analysis. Efforts should be made to maximize sight distance for vehicles exiting Mid South; 
however, as the analysis indicates no capacity or queueing issues at any of the of the study 
intersections, no roadway improvements are recommended to be performed as part of this project to 
accommodate site traffic volumes. 
Should you have any questions or comments, please do not hesitate to contact me at (919) 653-2948 
or travis.fluitt@kimley-horn.com. 
Sincerely, 
 
Travis Fluitt, P.E. 
Senior Project Manager 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 41 of 140
Page 5 
kimley-horn.com 
421 Fayetteville Street, Suite 600, Raleigh, NC  27601 
919 677 2000 
 
Attachments:  
Figures 1-12, Traffic Count Data, Trip Generation Calculations, Approved 
Development Information, Volume Development Worksheets, Synchro/SIDRA LOS Reports, Crash 
Data 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 42 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 43 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 44 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 45 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 46 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 47 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 48 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 49 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 50 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 51 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 52 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 53 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 54 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 55 of 140
Mid South
Table 1 - Trip Generation
AM Peak Hour
PM Peak Hour
Total
In
Out
Total
In
Out
Total
In
Out
210 Single Family Detached Housing
58
d.u.
630
315
315
46
12
34
60
38
22
Land Use
Intensity
Daily
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 56 of 140
Project ID: 20-09034-001
Location: Palmer Dr & CR 1912/S Knoll Rd
Day:
City: Southern Pines
Date:
Start Time
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
Peds
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
Peds
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
Peds
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
Peds
App. Total
Int. Total
7:00 AM
4
5
9
0
0
18
0
0
2
0
0
2
0
11
0
0
0
11
1
16
0
0
0
17
48
7:15 AM
4
5
9
0
0
18
0
1
5
0
1
6
1
24
2
0
0
27
2
13
0
0
0
15
66
7:30 AM
4
5
13
0
2
22
0
2
2
0
0
4
8
26
8
0
0
42
4
38
1
0
0
43
111
7:45 AM
6
3
14
0
1
23
0
4
2
0
1
6
17
47
4
0
0
68
7
26
0
0
1
33
130
Total
18
18
45
0
3
81
0
7
11
0
2
18
26
108
14
0
0
148
14
93
1
0
1
108
355
8:00 AM
4
5
12
0
0
21
0
3
4
0
1
7
11
42
4
0
0
57
20
61
0
0
0
81
166
8:15 AM
12
4
4
0
0
20
0
1
15
0
1
16
14
50
3
0
0
67
11
49
0
0
0
60
163
8:30 AM
1
6
8
0
0
15
0
3
7
0
1
10
12
58
6
0
0
76
1
61
0
0
1
62
163
8:45 AM
2
3
9
0
0
14
1
9
0
0
0
10
6
44
7
0
0
57
6
40
0
0
0
46
127
Total
19
18
33
0
0
70
1
16
26
0
3
43
43
194
20
0
0
257
38
211
0
0
1
249
619
***BREAK***
4:00 PM
4
4
4
0
0
12
0
6
4
0
1
10
16
73
10
1
0
100
5
41
0
0
0
46
168
4:15 PM
2
7
6
0
0
15
0
4
10
0
2
14
11
57
5
0
0
73
7
29
0
0
0
36
138
4:30 PM
4
3
6
0
0
13
0
2
5
0
0
7
8
36
5
0
1
49
8
31
0
0
0
39
108
4:45 PM
5
8
5
0
0
18
0
3
10
0
23
13
7
48
4
0
0
59
6
51
0
0
0
57
147
Total
15
22
21
0
0
58
0
15
29
0
26
44
42
214
24
1
1
281
26
152
0
0
0
178
561
5:00 PM
1
1
5
0
0
7
0
4
9
0
1
13
11
63
6
0
0
80
11
29
0
0
0
40
140
5:15 PM
6
0
4
0
0
10
0
9
6
0
8
15
16
54
5
0
0
75
6
40
1
0
0
47
147
5:30 PM
3
3
6
0
0
12
0
4
7
0
1
11
9
52
5
0
0
66
6
39
0
0
0
45
134
5:45 PM
4
5
1
0
0
10
1
2
3
0
2
6
9
51
13
0
0
73
4
47
1
0
0
52
141
Total
14
9
16
0
0
39
1
19
25
0
12
45
45
220
29
0
0
294
27
155
2
0
0
184
562
Grand Total
66
67
115
0
3
248
2
57
91
0
43
150
156
736
87
1
1
980
105
611
3
0
2
719
2097
Apprch %
26.6
27.0
46.4
0.0
1.2
1.3
38.0
60.7
0.0
28.7
15.9
75.1
8.9
0.1
0.1
14.6
85.0
0.4
0.0
0.3
Total %
3.1
3.2
5.5
0.0
0.1
11.8
0.1
2.7
4.3
0.0
2.1
7.2
7.4
35.1
4.1
0.0
0.0
46.7
5.0
29.1
0.1
0.0
0.1
34.3
Cars, PU, Vans
64
64
113
0
241
2
53
91
0
146
156
727
85
1
969
102
602
3
0
707
2063
% Cars, PU, Vans
97.0
95.5
98.3
0.0
97.2
100.0
93.0
100.0
0.0
97.3
100.0
98.8
97.7
100.0
98.9
97.1
98.5
100.0
0.0
98.3
98.4
Heavy Trucks
2
3
2
0
7
0
4
0
0
4
0
9
2
0
11
3
9
0
0
12
34
%Heavy Trucks
3.0
4.5
1.7
0.0
2.8
0.0
7.0
0.0
0.0
2.7
0.0
1.2
2.3
0.0
1.1
2.9
1.5
0.0
0.0
1.7
1.6
Project ID: 20-09034-001
Location: Palmer Dr & CR 1912/S Knoll Rd
Day:
City: Southern Pines
Date:
AM
Start Time
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis from 07:00 AM to 09:00 AM
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
7:45 AM
6
3
14
0
23
0
4
2
0
6
17
47
4
0
68
7
26
0
0
33
130
8:00 AM
4
5
12
0
21
0
3
4
0
7
11
42
4
0
57
20
61
0
0
81
166
8:15 AM
12
4
4
0
20
0
1
15
0
16
14
50
3
0
67
11
49
0
0
60
163
8:30 AM
1
6
8
0
15
0
3
7
0
10
12
58
6
0
76
1
61
0
0
62
163
Total Volume
23
18
38
0
79
0
11
28
0
39
54
197
17
0
268
39
197
0
0
236
622
% App. Total
29.1
22.8
48.1
0.0
100
0.0
28.2
71.8
0.0
100
20.1
73.5
6.3
0.0
100
16.5
83.5
0.0
0.0
100
PHF
0.859
0.609
0.882
0.728
0.937
Cars, PU, Vans
22
18
38
0
78
0
11
28
0
39
54
195
17
0
266
38
195
0
0
233
616
% Cars, PU, Vans
95.7
100.0
100.0
0.0
98.7
0.0
100.0
100.0
0.0
100.0
100.0
99.0
100.0
0.0
99.3
97.4
99.0
0.0
0.0
98.7
99.0
Heavy Trucks
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
2
1
2
0
0
3
6
%Heavy Trucks
4.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.0
0.0
0.0
0.7
2.6
1.0
0.0
0.0
1.3
1.0
PM
Start Time
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis from 04:00 PM to 06:00 PM
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
4:45 PM
5
8
5
0
18
0
3
10
0
13
7
48
4
0
59
6
51
0
0
57
147
5:00 PM
1
1
5
0
7
0
4
9
0
13
11
63
6
0
80
11
29
0
0
40
140
5:15 PM
6
0
4
0
10
0
9
6
0
15
16
54
5
0
75
6
40
1
0
47
147
5:30 PM
3
3
6
0
12
0
4
7
0
11
9
52
5
0
66
6
39
0
0
45
134
Total Volume
15
12
20
0
47
0
20
32
0
52
43
217
20
0
280
29
159
1
0
189
568
% App. Total
31.9
25.5
42.6
0.0
100
0.0
38.5
61.5
0.0
100
15.4
77.5
7.1
0.0
100
15.3
84.1
0.5
0.0
100
PHF
0.653
0.867
0.875
0.829
0.966
Cars, PU, Vans
15
11
20
0
46
0
19
32
0
51
43
217
20
0
280
29
157
1
0
187
564
% Cars, PU, Vans
100.0
91.7
100.0
0.0
97.9
0.0
95.0
100.0
0.0
98.1
100.0
100.0
100.0
0.0
100.0
100.0
98.7
100.0
0.0
98.9
99.3
Heavy Trucks
0
1
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
2
4
%Heavy Trucks
0.0
8.3
0.0
0.0
2.1
0.0
5.0
0.0
0.0
1.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.3
0.0
0.0
1.1
0.7
02/04/2020
PEAK HOURS
Palmer Dr
Northbound
Palmer Dr
Northbound
Palmer Dr
Southbound
CR 1912/S Knoll Rd
Eastbound
CR 1912/S Knoll Rd
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Eastbound
Westbound
Tuesday
Tuesday
02/04/2020
Groups Printed - Cars, PU, Vans - Heavy Trucks
Palmer Dr
Palmer Dr
CR 1912/S Knoll Rd
CR 1912/S Knoll Rd
Palmer Dr
Southbound
CR 1912/S Knoll Rd
Eastbound
CR 1912/S Knoll Rd
Westbound
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 57 of 140
Project ID: 20-09034-002
Location: Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905/S Knoll Rd/CR 1912 & Voit Gilmore Ln/CR 1905
Day:
City: Southern Pines
Date:
Start Time
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
Peds
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
Peds
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
Peds
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
Peds
App. Total
Int. Total
7:00 AM
2
9
0
0
0
11
0
15
8
0
0
23
3
0
1
0
0
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
38
7:15 AM
10
19
0
0
0
29
0
17
4
0
0
21
5
0
3
0
0
8
0
0
0
0
0
0
58
7:30 AM
11
35
0
0
0
46
0
27
17
0
0
44
9
0
7
1
0
17
0
0
0
0
0
0
107
7:45 AM
24
54
0
0
0
78
0
18
18
0
0
36
17
0
26
0
0
43
0
0
0
0
0
0
157
Total
47
117
0
0
0
164
0
77
47
0
0
124
34
0
37
1
0
72
0
0
0
0
0
0
360
8:00 AM
36
33
0
0
0
69
0
39
28
0
0
67
16
0
36
0
0
52
0
0
0
0
0
0
188
8:15 AM
50
33
0
0
0
83
0
26
53
0
0
79
41
0
71
6
0
118
0
0
0
0
0
0
280
8:30 AM
83
33
0
0
0
116
0
21
45
0
0
66
46
0
117
7
0
170
0
0
0
0
0
0
352
8:45 AM
10
33
0
0
0
43
0
32
10
0
0
42
17
0
22
1
0
40
0
0
0
0
0
0
125
Total
179
132
0
0
0
311
0
118
136
0
0
254
120
0
246
14
0
380
0
0
0
0
0
0
945
***BREAK***
4:00 PM
20
52
0
1
0
73
0
35
14
1
0
50
47
0
88
2
0
137
0
0
0
0
0
0
260
4:15 PM
11
50
0
1
0
62
0
33
8
0
0
41
23
0
28
1
0
52
0
0
0
0
0
0
155
4:30 PM
10
39
0
0
0
49
0
34
6
0
0
40
8
0
18
2
0
28
0
0
0
0
0
0
117
4:45 PM
12
50
0
0
0
62
0
49
18
0
0
67
13
0
18
0
0
31
0
0
0
0
0
0
160
Total
53
191
0
2
0
246
0
151
46
1
0
198
91
0
152
5
0
248
0
0
0
0
0
0
692
5:00 PM
9
57
0
0
0
66
0
29
9
0
0
38
22
0
18
0
0
40
0
0
0
0
0
0
144
5:15 PM
8
65
0
0
0
73
0
44
9
0
0
53
12
0
13
0
0
25
0
0
0
0
0
0
151
5:30 PM
23
52
0
0
0
75
0
30
18
0
0
48
13
0
21
0
0
34
0
0
0
0
0
0
157
5:45 PM
21
62
0
1
0
84
0
43
11
0
0
54
10
0
26
0
0
36
0
0
0
0
0
0
174
Total
61
236
0
1
0
298
0
146
47
0
0
193
57
0
78
0
0
135
0
0
0
0
0
0
626
Grand Total
340
676
0
3
0
1019
0
492
276
1
0
769
302
0
513
20
0
835
0
0
0
0
0
0
2623
Apprch %
33.4
66.3
0.0
0.3
0.0
0.0
64.0
35.9
0.1
0.0
36.2
0.0
61.4
2.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total %
13.0
25.8
0.0
0.1
0.0
38.8
0.0
18.8
10.5
0.0
0.0
29.3
11.5
0.0
19.6
0.8
0.0
31.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Cars, PU, Vans
337
668
0
3
1008
0
486
271
1
758
299
0
506
20
825
0
0
0
0
0
2591
% Cars, PU, Vans
99.1
98.8
0.0
100.0
98.9
0.0
98.8
98.2
100.0
98.6
99.0
0.0
98.6
100.0
98.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
98.8
Heavy Trucks
3
8
0
0
11
0
6
5
0
11
3
0
7
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
32
%Heavy Trucks
0.9
1.2
0.0
0.0
1.1
0.0
1.2
1.8
0.0
1.4
1.0
0.0
1.4
0.0
1.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.2
Project ID: 20-09034-002
Location: Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905/S Knoll Rd/CR 1912 & Voit Gilmore Ln/CR 1905
Day:
City: Southern Pines
Date:
AM
Start Time
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis from 07:00 AM to 09:00 AM
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
7:45 AM
24
54
0
0
78
0
18
18
0
36
17
0
26
0
43
0
0
0
0
0
157
8:00 AM
36
33
0
0
69
0
39
28
0
67
16
0
36
0
52
0
0
0
0
0
188
8:15 AM
50
33
0
0
83
0
26
53
0
79
41
0
71
6
118
0
0
0
0
0
280
8:30 AM
83
33
0
0
116
0
21
45
0
66
46
0
117
7
170
0
0
0
0
0
352
Total Volume
193
153
0
0
346
0
104
144
0
248
120
0
250
13
383
0
0
0
0
0
977
% App. Total
55.8
44.2
0.0
0.0
100
0.0
41.9
58.1
0.0
100
31.3
0.0
65.3
3.4
100
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0
PHF
0.746
0.785
0.563
0.694
Cars, PU, Vans
191
151
0
0
342
0
103
142
0
245
120
0
248
13
381
0
0
0
0
0
968
% Cars, PU, Vans
99.0
98.7
0.0
0.0
98.8
0.0
99.0
98.6
0.0
98.8
100.0
0.0
99.2
100.0
99.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
99.1
Heavy Trucks
2
2
0
0
4
0
1
2
0
3
0
0
2
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
9
%Heavy Trucks
1.0
1.3
0.0
0.0
1.2
0.0
1.0
1.4
0.0
1.2
0.0
0.0
0.8
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.9
PM
Start Time
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis from 04:00 PM to 06:00 PM
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
4:00 PM
20
52
0
1
73
0
35
14
1
50
47
0
88
2
137
0
0
0
0
0
260
4:15 PM
11
50
0
1
62
0
33
8
0
41
23
0
28
1
52
0
0
0
0
0
155
4:30 PM
10
39
0
0
49
0
34
6
0
40
8
0
18
2
28
0
0
0
0
0
117
4:45 PM
12
50
0
0
62
0
49
18
0
67
13
0
18
0
31
0
0
0
0
0
160
Total Volume
53
191
0
2
246
0
151
46
1
198
91
0
152
5
248
0
0
0
0
0
692
% App. Total
21.5
77.6
0.0
0.8
100
0.0
76.3
23.2
0.5
100
36.7
0.0
61.3
2.0
100
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0
PHF
0.842
0.739
0.453
0.665
Cars, PU, Vans
53
189
0
2
244
0
148
46
1
195
91
0
149
5
245
0
0
0
0
0
684
% Cars, PU, Vans
100.0
99.0
0.0
100.0
99.2
0.0
98.0
100.0
100.0
98.5
100.0
0.0
98.0
100.0
98.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
98.8
Heavy Trucks
0
2
0
0
2
0
3
0
0
3
0
0
3
0
3
0
0
0
0
0
8
%Heavy Trucks
0.0
1.0
0.0
0.0
0.8
0.0
2.0
0.0
0.0
1.5
0.0
0.0
2.0
0.0
1.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.2
Southbound
Voit Gilmore Ln/CR 1905
Eastbound
Voit Gilmore Ln/CR 1905
Westbound
Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905/S Knoll Rd/CR 1912
Tuesday
02/04/2020
Groups Printed - Cars, PU, Vans - Heavy Trucks
Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905/S Knoll Rd/CR 1912
Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905/S Knoll Rd/CR 1912
Voit Gilmore Ln/CR 1905
Voit Gilmore Ln/CR 1905
Northbound
Southbound
Eastbound
Westbound
Tuesday
02/04/2020
PEAK HOURS
Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905/S Knoll Rd/CR 1912
Northbound
Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905/S Knoll Rd/CR 1912
Northbound
Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905/S Knoll Rd/CR 1912
Southbound
Voit Gilmore Ln/CR 1905
Eastbound
Voit Gilmore Ln/CR 1905
Westbound
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 58 of 140
Project ID: 20-09034-003
Location: Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905 & Plantation Dr
Day:
City: Southern Pines
Date:
Start Time
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
Peds
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
Peds
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
Peds
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
Peds
App. Total
Int. Total
7:00 AM
0
14
1
0
0
15
0
17
0
0
0
17
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
0
0
0
0
5
37
7:15 AM
0
29
3
0
0
32
0
21
0
0
0
21
0
0
0
0
0
0
11
0
3
0
0
14
67
7:30 AM
0
42
2
0
0
44
0
37
0
0
0
37
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
0
1
0
0
10
91
7:45 AM
0
76
4
0
0
80
0
46
0
0
0
46
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
0
5
0
0
11
137
Total
0
161
10
0
0
171
0
121
0
0
0
121
0
0
0
0
0
0
31
0
9
0
0
40
332
8:00 AM
0
65
6
0
0
71
0
80
0
0
0
80
0
0
0
0
0
0
11
0
3
0
0
14
165
8:15 AM
0
93
2
0
0
95
2
105
0
0
0
107
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
0
2
0
0
11
213
8:30 AM
0
85
5
0
0
90
0
147
0
0
0
147
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
0
8
0
0
12
249
8:45 AM
0
37
3
0
0
40
1
46
0
0
0
47
0
0
0
0
0
0
10
0
3
0
0
13
100
Total
0
280
16
0
0
296
3
378
0
0
0
381
0
0
0
0
0
0
34
0
16
0
0
50
727
***BREAK***
4:00 PM
0
69
6
0
0
75
2
128
0
0
0
130
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
3
0
0
6
211
4:15 PM
0
60
13
0
0
73
2
64
0
0
0
66
0
0
0
0
0
0
13
0
5
0
0
18
157
4:30 PM
0
52
3
0
0
55
3
47
0
0
0
50
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
0
1
0
0
7
112
4:45 PM
0
66
13
0
0
79
3
63
0
0
2
66
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
0
2
0
0
11
156
Total
0
247
35
0
0
282
10
302
0
0
2
312
0
0
0
0
0
0
31
0
11
0
0
42
636
5:00 PM
0
62
8
0
0
70
3
47
0
0
0
50
0
0
0
0
0
0
10
0
1
0
0
11
131
5:15 PM
0
72
7
0
0
79
2
58
0
0
0
60
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
0
0
0
0
5
144
5:30 PM
0
75
3
0
0
78
1
57
0
0
0
58
0
0
0
0
0
0
10
0
2
0
0
12
148
5:45 PM
0
70
10
0
0
80
3
75
0
0
0
78
0
0
0
0
0
0
11
0
3
0
0
14
172
Total
0
279
28
0
0
307
9
237
0
0
0
246
0
0
0
0
0
0
36
0
6
0
0
42
595
Grand Total
0
967
89
0
0
1056
22
1038
0
0
2
1060
0
0
0
0
0
0
132
0
42
0
0
174
2290
Apprch %
0.0
91.6
8.4
0.0
0.0
2.1
97.9
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
75.9
0.0
24.1
0.0
0.0
Total %
0.0
42.2
3.9
0.0
0.0
46.1
1.0
45.3
0.0
0.0
0.1
46.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
5.8
0.0
1.8
0.0
0.0
7.6
Cars, PU, Vans
0
959
89
0
1048
20
1027
0
0
1047
0
0
0
0
0
132
0
39
0
171
2266
% Cars, PU, Vans
0.0
99.2
100.0
0.0
99.2
90.9
98.9
0.0
0.0
98.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
100.0
0.0
92.9
0.0
98.3
99.0
Heavy Trucks
0
8
0
0
8
2
11
0
0
13
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
3
24
%Heavy Trucks
0.0
0.8
0.0
0.0
0.8
9.1
1.1
0.0
0.0
1.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
7.1
0.0
1.7
1.0
Project ID: 20-09034-003
Location: Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905 & Plantation Dr
Day:
City: Southern Pines
Date:
AM
Start Time
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis from 07:00 AM to 09:00 AM
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
7:45 AM
0
76
4
0
80
0
46
0
0
46
0
0
0
0
0
6
0
5
0
11
137
8:00 AM
0
65
6
0
71
0
80
0
0
80
0
0
0
0
0
11
0
3
0
14
165
8:15 AM
0
93
2
0
95
2
105
0
0
107
0
0
0
0
0
9
0
2
0
11
213
8:30 AM
0
85
5
0
90
0
147
0
0
147
0
0
0
0
0
4
0
8
0
12
249
Total Volume
0
319
17
0
336
2
378
0
0
380
0
0
0
0
0
30
0
18
0
48
764
% App. Total
0.0
94.9
5.1
0.0
100
0.5
99.5
0.0
0.0
100
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0
62.5
0.0
37.5
0.0
100
PHF
0.884
0.646
0.857
0.767
Cars, PU, Vans
0
315
17
0
332
2
375
0
0
377
0
0
0
0
0
30
0
18
0
48
757
% Cars, PU, Vans
0.0
98.7
100.0
0.0
98.8
100.0
99.2
0.0
0.0
99.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
100.0
0.0
100.0
0.0
100.0
99.1
Heavy Trucks
0
4
0
0
4
0
3
0
0
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
%Heavy Trucks
0.0
1.3
0.0
0.0
1.2
0.0
0.8
0.0
0.0
0.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.9
PM
Start Time
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total
Left
Thru
Rgt
Uturn
App. Total Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis from 04:00 PM to 06:00 PM
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
4:00 PM
0
69
6
0
75
2
128
0
0
130
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
3
0
6
211
4:15 PM
0
60
13
0
73
2
64
0
0
66
0
0
0
0
0
13
0
5
0
18
157
4:30 PM
0
52
3
0
55
3
47
0
0
50
0
0
0
0
0
6
0
1
0
7
112
4:45 PM
0
66
13
0
79
3
63
0
0
66
0
0
0
0
0
9
0
2
0
11
156
Total Volume
0
247
35
0
282
10
302
0
0
312
0
0
0
0
0
31
0
11
0
42
636
% App. Total
0.0
87.6
12.4
0.0
100
3.2
96.8
0.0
0.0
100
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0
73.8
0.0
26.2
0.0
100
PHF
0.892
0.600
0.583
0.754
Cars, PU, Vans
0
247
35
0
282
9
297
0
0
306
0
0
0
0
0
31
0
9
0
40
628
% Cars, PU, Vans
0.0
100.0
100.0
0.0
100.0
90.0
98.3
0.0
0.0
98.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
100.0
0.0
81.8
0.0
95.2
98.7
Heavy Trucks
0
0
0
0
0
1
5
0
0
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
2
8
%Heavy Trucks
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
10.0
1.7
0.0
0.0
1.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
18.2
0.0
4.8
1.3
02/04/2020
PEAK HOURS
Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905
Northbound
Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905
Northbound
Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905
Southbound
Plantation Dr
Eastbound
Plantation Dr
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Eastbound
Westbound
Tuesday
Tuesday
02/04/2020
Groups Printed - Cars, PU, Vans - Heavy Trucks
Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905
Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905
Plantation Dr
Plantation Dr
Felton Capel Ln/CR 1905
Southbound
Plantation Dr
Eastbound
Plantation Dr
Westbound
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 59 of 140
Mid South
Existing (2020) AM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\1-Existing AM (2020).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
54
197
17
39
197
4
23
18
38
4
11
28
Future Volume (vph)
54
197
17
39
197
4
23
18
38
4
11
28
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
0
1828
0
0
1844
0
0
1717
0
0
1692
0
Flt Permitted
0.990
0.992
0.986
0.996
Satd. Flow (perm)
0
1828
0
0
1844
0
0
1717
0
0
1692
0
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
576
576
325
345
Travel Time (s)
13.1
13.1
7.4
7.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
4
1
1
4
2
2
Peak Hour Factor
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
0
285
0
0
255
0
0
83
0
0
46
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 37.9%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 60 of 140
Mid South
Existing (2020) AM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\1-Existing AM (2020).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.8
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
54
197
17
39
197
4
23
18
38
4
11
28
Future Vol, veh/h
54
197
17
39
197
4
23
18
38
4
11
28
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
4
0
1
1
0
4
0
0
2
2
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
57
210
18
41
210
4
24
19
40
4
12
30
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
218
0
0
229
0
0
649
634
222
663
641
216
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
334
334
-
298
298
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
315
300
-
365
343
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1352
-
-
1339
-
-
383
397
818
375
393
824
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
680
643
-
711
667
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
696
666
-
654
637
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1347
-
-
1338
-
-
337
362
816
319
359
821
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
337
362
-
319
359
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
646
611
-
673
641
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
635
640
-
572
605
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
1.6
1.3
14.1
12.1
HCM LOS
B
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
480
1347
-
-
1338
-
-
556
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.175 0.043
-
- 0.031
-
- 0.082
HCM Control Delay (s)
14.1
7.8
0
-
7.8
0
-
12.1
HCM Lane LOS
B
A
A
-
A
A
-
B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.6
0.1
-
-
0.1
-
-
0.3
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 61 of 140
INPUT VOLUMES
Vehicles and pedestrians per 60 minutes
Site: 101 [1-Existing (2020) AM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Volume Display Method: Total and %
All MCs
Light Vehicles (LV)
Heavy Vehicles (HV)
S: Felton Capel Lane
346
339
7
N: S Knoll Road
248
243
5
W: Voit Gilmore Lane
383
375
8
Total
977
957
20
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Created: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 12:17:12 PM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 62 of 140
MOVEMENT SUMMARY
Site: 101 [1-Existing (2020) AM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Movement Performance - Vehicles
Demand Flows
95% Back of Queue
Mov
ID
Turn
Deg.
Satn
Average
Delay
Level of
Service
Prop.
Queued
Effective
Stop Rate
Aver. No.
Cycles
Average
Speed
Total
HV
Vehicles
Distance
veh/h
%
v/c
sec
veh
ft
mph
South: Felton Capel Lane
6
L2
280
2.0
0.453
8.2
LOS A
2.8
72.2
0.50
0.35
0.50
23.6
7
T1
222
2.0
0.453
8.2
LOS A
2.8
72.2
0.50
0.35
0.50
23.1
Approach
501
2.0
0.453
8.2
LOS A
2.8
72.2
0.50
0.35
0.50
23.4
North: S Knoll Road
1
T1
151
2.0
0.362
7.5
LOS A
1.9
48.9
0.54
0.44
0.54
31.0
2
R2
209
2.0
0.362
7.5
LOS A
1.9
48.9
0.54
0.44
0.54
30.1
Approach
359
2.0
0.362
7.5
LOS A
1.9
48.9
0.54
0.44
0.54
30.5
West: Voit Gilmore Lane
3
U
19
2.0
0.480
8.4
LOS A
3.2
82.0
0.47
0.30
0.47
27.8
4
L2
174
2.0
0.480
8.4
LOS A
3.2
82.0
0.47
0.30
0.47
23.8
5
R2
362
2.0
0.480
8.4
LOS A
3.2
82.0
0.47
0.30
0.47
22.8
Approach
555
2.0
0.480
8.4
LOS A
3.2
82.0
0.47
0.30
0.47
23.2
All Vehicles
1416
2.0
0.480
8.1
LOS A
3.2
82.0
0.50
0.36
0.50
24.8
Site Level of Service (LOS) Method: Delay & v/c (HCM 6). Site LOS Method is specified in the Parameter Settings dialog (Site tab).
Roundabout LOS Method: Same as Sign Control.
Vehicle movement LOS values are based on average delay and v/c ratio (degree of saturation) per movement.
LOS F will result if v/c > 1 irrespective of movement delay value (does not apply for approaches and intersection).
Intersection and Approach LOS values are based on average delay for all movements (v/c not used as specified in HCM 6).
Roundabout Capacity Model: US HCM 6.
HCM Delay Formula option is used. Control Delay does not include Geometric Delay since Exclude Geometric Delay option applies.
Gap-Acceptance Capacity: Traditional M1.
HV (%) values are calculated for All Movement Classes of All Heavy Vehicle Model Designation.
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Processed: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 10:47:22 AM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 63 of 140
Mid South
Existing (2020) AM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\1-Existing AM (2020).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
WBL
WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
30
18
319
17
4
378
Future Volume (vph)
30
18
319
17
4
378
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
1717
0
1850
0
0
1861
Flt Permitted
0.970
0.999
Satd. Flow (perm)
1717
0
1850
0
0
1861
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
620
541
657
Travel Time (s)
14.1
12.3
14.9
Peak Hour Factor
0.77
0.77
0.77
0.77
0.77
0.77
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
62
0
436
0
0
496
Sign Control
Stop
Free
Free
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 33.1%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 64 of 140
Mid South
Existing (2020) AM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\1-Existing AM (2020).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.1
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
30
18
319
17
4
378
Future Vol, veh/h
30
18
319
17
4
378
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
77
77
77
77
77
77
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
39
23
414
22
5
491
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
926
425
0
0
436
0
          Stage 1
425
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
501
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.42
6.22
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
298
629
-
-
1124
-
          Stage 1
659
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
609
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
296
629
-
-
1124
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
296
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
659
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
605
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
16.7
0
0.1
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
369
1124
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.169 0.005
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
16.7
8.2
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.6
0
-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 65 of 140
Mid South
Existing (2020) PM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\2-Existing PM (2020).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
43
217
20
29
159
4
15
12
20
4
20
32
Future Volume (vph)
43
217
20
29
159
4
15
12
20
4
20
32
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
0
1829
0
0
1842
0
0
1727
0
0
1714
0
Flt Permitted
0.992
0.992
0.985
0.997
Satd. Flow (perm)
0
1829
0
0
1842
0
0
1727
0
0
1714
0
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
576
576
325
345
Travel Time (s)
13.1
13.1
7.4
7.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
33
33
Peak Hour Factor
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
0
289
0
0
198
0
0
48
0
0
58
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 34.1%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 66 of 140
Mid South
Existing (2020) PM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\2-Existing PM (2020).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.3
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
43
217
20
29
159
4
15
12
20
4
20
32
Future Vol, veh/h
43
217
20
29
159
4
15
12
20
4
20
32
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
33
0
0
0
0
33
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
44
224
21
30
164
4
15
12
21
4
21
33
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
201
0
0
245
0
0
576
584
235
598
592
199
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
323
323
-
259
259
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
253
261
-
339
333
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1371
-
-
1321
-
-
428
423
804
414
419
842
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
689
650
-
746
694
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
751
692
-
676
644
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1328
-
-
1321
-
-
375
385
804
363
381
816
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
375
385
-
363
381
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
663
625
-
695
656
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
681
654
-
621
620
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
1.2
1.2
13.2
12.4
HCM LOS
B
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
489
1328
-
-
1321
-
-
545
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.099 0.033
-
- 0.023
-
- 0.106
HCM Control Delay (s)
13.2
7.8
0
-
7.8
0
-
12.4
HCM Lane LOS
B
A
A
-
A
A
-
B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.3
0.1
-
-
0.1
-
-
0.4
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 67 of 140
INPUT VOLUMES
Vehicles and pedestrians per 60 minutes
Site: 101 [2-Existing (2020) PM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Volume Display Method: Total and %
All MCs
Light Vehicles (LV)
Heavy Vehicles (HV)
S: Felton Capel Lane
246
241
5
N: S Knoll Road
198
194
4
W: Voit Gilmore Lane
248
243
5
Total
692
678
14
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Created: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 12:17:20 PM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 68 of 140
MOVEMENT SUMMARY
Site: 101 [2-Existing (2020) PM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Movement Performance - Vehicles
Demand Flows
95% Back of Queue
Mov
ID
Turn
Deg.
Satn
Average
Delay
Level of
Service
Prop.
Queued
Effective
Stop Rate
Aver. No.
Cycles
Average
Speed
Total
HV
Vehicles
Distance
veh/h
%
v/c
sec
veh
ft
mph
South: Felton Capel Lane
6
L2
82
2.0
0.315
6.1
LOS A
1.7
43.9
0.37
0.23
0.37
24.5
7
T1
285
2.0
0.315
6.1
LOS A
1.7
43.9
0.37
0.23
0.37
24.0
Approach
367
2.0
0.315
6.1
LOS A
1.7
43.9
0.37
0.23
0.37
24.1
North: S Knoll Road
1
T1
227
2.0
0.240
5.0
LOS A
1.2
31.5
0.27
0.13
0.27
32.1
2
R2
69
2.0
0.240
5.0
LOS A
1.2
31.5
0.27
0.13
0.27
31.2
Approach
296
2.0
0.240
5.0
LOS A
1.2
31.5
0.27
0.13
0.27
31.9
West: Voit Gilmore Lane
3
U
7
2.0
0.346
6.9
LOS A
1.9
47.8
0.47
0.35
0.47
28.1
4
L2
136
2.0
0.346
6.9
LOS A
1.9
47.8
0.47
0.35
0.47
24.1
5
R2
227
2.0
0.346
6.9
LOS A
1.9
47.8
0.47
0.35
0.47
23.0
Approach
370
2.0
0.346
6.9
LOS A
1.9
47.8
0.47
0.35
0.47
23.5
All Vehicles
1033
2.0
0.346
6.1
LOS A
1.9
47.8
0.38
0.24
0.38
25.7
Site Level of Service (LOS) Method: Delay & v/c (HCM 6). Site LOS Method is specified in the Parameter Settings dialog (Site tab).
Roundabout LOS Method: Same as Sign Control.
Vehicle movement LOS values are based on average delay and v/c ratio (degree of saturation) per movement.
LOS F will result if v/c > 1 irrespective of movement delay value (does not apply for approaches and intersection).
Intersection and Approach LOS values are based on average delay for all movements (v/c not used as specified in HCM 6).
Roundabout Capacity Model: US HCM 6.
HCM Delay Formula option is used. Control Delay does not include Geometric Delay since Exclude Geometric Delay option applies.
Gap-Acceptance Capacity: Traditional M1.
HV (%) values are calculated for All Movement Classes of All Heavy Vehicle Model Designation.
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Processed: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 10:47:23 AM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 69 of 140
Mid South
Existing (2020) PM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\2-Existing PM (2020).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
WBL
WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
31
11
247
35
10
302
Future Volume (vph)
31
11
247
35
10
302
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
1683
0
1831
0
0
1859
Flt Permitted
0.965
0.998
Satd. Flow (perm)
1683
0
1831
0
0
1859
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
620
541
657
Travel Time (s)
14.1
12.3
14.9
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
2
Peak Hour Factor
0.75
0.75
0.75
0.75
0.75
0.75
Heavy Vehicles (%)
5%
5%
2%
2%
2%
2%
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
56
0
376
0
0
416
Sign Control
Stop
Free
Free
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 34.6%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 70 of 140
Mid South
Existing (2020) PM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\2-Existing PM (2020).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.2
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
31
11
247
35
10
302
Future Vol, veh/h
31
11
247
35
10
302
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
2
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
75
75
75
75
75
75
Heavy Vehicles, %
5
5
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
41
15
329
47
13
403
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
782
355
0
0
376
0
          Stage 1
353
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
429
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.45
6.25
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.45
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.45
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.545 3.345
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
359
682
-
-
1182
-
          Stage 1
705
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
650
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
354
681
-
-
1182
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
354
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
705
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
641
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
15.3
0
0.3
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
405
1182
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.138 0.011
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
15.3
8.1
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.5
0
-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 71 of 140
Mid South
Background (2025) AM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\3-Background AM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
57
207
18
41
207
4
24
19
40
4
12
29
Future Volume (vph)
57
207
18
41
207
4
24
19
40
4
12
29
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
0
1828
0
0
1844
0
0
1717
0
0
1694
0
Flt Permitted
0.990
0.992
0.986
0.996
Satd. Flow (perm)
0
1828
0
0
1844
0
0
1717
0
0
1694
0
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
576
576
325
345
Travel Time (s)
13.1
13.1
7.4
7.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
4
1
1
4
2
2
Peak Hour Factor
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
0
300
0
0
268
0
0
89
0
0
48
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 39.6%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 72 of 140
Mid South
Background (2025) AM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\3-Background AM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.9
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
57
207
18
41
207
4
24
19
40
4
12
29
Future Vol, veh/h
57
207
18
41
207
4
24
19
40
4
12
29
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
4
0
1
1
0
4
0
0
2
2
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
61
220
19
44
220
4
26
20
43
4
13
31
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
228
0
0
240
0
0
685
669
233
699
676
226
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
353
353
-
314
314
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
332
316
-
385
362
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1340
-
-
1327
-
-
362
379
806
354
375
813
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
664
631
-
697
656
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
681
655
-
638
625
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1335
-
-
1326
-
-
315
343
804
297
340
810
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
315
343
-
297
340
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
628
597
-
657
628
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
617
627
-
552
591
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
1.6
1.3
14.7
12.4
HCM LOS
B
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
458
1335
-
-
1326
-
-
532
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.193 0.045
-
- 0.033
-
-
0.09
HCM Control Delay (s)
14.7
7.8
0
-
7.8
0
-
12.4
HCM Lane LOS
B
A
A
-
A
A
-
B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.7
0.1
-
-
0.1
-
-
0.3
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 73 of 140
INPUT VOLUMES
Vehicles and pedestrians per 60 minutes
Site: 101 [3-Background (2025) AM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Volume Display Method: Total and %
All MCs
Light Vehicles (LV)
Heavy Vehicles (HV)
S: Felton Capel Lane
364
357
7
N: S Knoll Road
260
255
5
W: Voit Gilmore Lane
403
395
8
Total
1027
1006
21
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Created: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 12:17:28 PM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 74 of 140
MOVEMENT SUMMARY
Site: 101 [3-Background (2025) AM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Movement Performance - Vehicles
Demand Flows
95% Back of Queue
Mov
ID
Turn
Deg.
Satn
Average
Delay
Level of
Service
Prop.
Queued
Effective
Stop Rate
Aver. No.
Cycles
Average
Speed
Total
HV
Vehicles
Distance
veh/h
%
v/c
sec
veh
ft
mph
South: Felton Capel Lane
6
L2
294
2.0
0.482
8.7
LOS A
3.1
79.0
0.53
0.38
0.53
23.4
7
T1
233
2.0
0.482
8.7
LOS A
3.1
79.0
0.53
0.38
0.53
23.0
Approach
528
2.0
0.482
8.7
LOS A
3.1
79.0
0.53
0.38
0.53
23.2
North: S Knoll Road
1
T1
158
2.0
0.386
7.9
LOS A
2.1
52.9
0.56
0.47
0.56
30.8
2
R2
219
2.0
0.386
7.9
LOS A
2.1
52.9
0.56
0.47
0.56
29.9
Approach
377
2.0
0.386
7.9
LOS A
2.1
52.9
0.56
0.47
0.56
30.3
West: Voit Gilmore Lane
3
U
20
2.0
0.509
8.9
LOS A
3.5
90.0
0.50
0.33
0.50
27.6
4
L2
183
2.0
0.509
8.9
LOS A
3.5
90.0
0.50
0.33
0.50
23.7
5
R2
381
2.0
0.509
8.9
LOS A
3.5
90.0
0.50
0.33
0.50
22.7
Approach
584
2.0
0.509
8.9
LOS A
3.5
90.0
0.50
0.33
0.50
23.1
All Vehicles
1488
2.0
0.509
8.6
LOS A
3.5
90.0
0.52
0.38
0.52
24.6
Site Level of Service (LOS) Method: Delay & v/c (HCM 6). Site LOS Method is specified in the Parameter Settings dialog (Site tab).
Roundabout LOS Method: Same as Sign Control.
Vehicle movement LOS values are based on average delay and v/c ratio (degree of saturation) per movement.
LOS F will result if v/c > 1 irrespective of movement delay value (does not apply for approaches and intersection).
Intersection and Approach LOS values are based on average delay for all movements (v/c not used as specified in HCM 6).
Roundabout Capacity Model: US HCM 6.
HCM Delay Formula option is used. Control Delay does not include Geometric Delay since Exclude Geometric Delay option applies.
Gap-Acceptance Capacity: Traditional M1.
HV (%) values are calculated for All Movement Classes of All Heavy Vehicle Model Designation.
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Processed: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 10:47:23 AM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 75 of 140
Mid South
Background (2025) AM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\3-Background AM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
WBL
WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
32
19
335
18
4
397
Future Volume (vph)
32
19
335
18
4
397
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
1717
0
1850
0
0
1863
Flt Permitted
0.970
Satd. Flow (perm)
1717
0
1850
0
0
1863
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
620
541
657
Travel Time (s)
14.1
12.3
14.9
Peak Hour Factor
0.77
0.77
0.77
0.77
0.77
0.77
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
67
0
458
0
0
521
Sign Control
Stop
Free
Free
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 34.1%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 76 of 140
Mid South
Background (2025) AM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\3-Background AM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.2
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
32
19
335
18
4
397
Future Vol, veh/h
32
19
335
18
4
397
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
77
77
77
77
77
77
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
42
25
435
23
5
516
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
973
447
0
0
458
0
          Stage 1
447
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
526
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.42
6.22
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
280
612
-
-
1103
-
          Stage 1
644
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
593
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
278
612
-
-
1103
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
278
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
644
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
589
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
17.7
0
0.1
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
349
1103
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
-
0.19 0.005
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
17.7
8.3
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.7
0
-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 77 of 140
Mid South
Background (2025) PM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\4-Background PM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
45
228
21
30
167
4
16
13
21
4
21
34
Future Volume (vph)
45
228
21
30
167
4
16
13
21
4
21
34
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
0
1829
0
0
1844
0
0
1728
0
0
1714
0
Flt Permitted
0.992
0.993
0.985
0.997
Satd. Flow (perm)
0
1829
0
0
1844
0
0
1728
0
0
1714
0
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
576
576
325
345
Travel Time (s)
13.1
13.1
7.4
7.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
33
33
Peak Hour Factor
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
0
303
0
0
207
0
0
51
0
0
61
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 35.8%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 78 of 140
Mid South
Background (2025) PM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\4-Background PM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.3
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
45
228
21
30
167
4
16
13
21
4
21
34
Future Vol, veh/h
45
228
21
30
167
4
16
13
21
4
21
34
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
33
0
0
0
0
33
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
46
235
22
31
172
4
16
13
22
4
22
35
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
209
0
0
257
0
0
603
609
246
625
618
207
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
338
338
-
269
269
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
265
271
-
356
349
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1362
-
-
1308
-
-
411
410
793
397
405
833
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
676
641
-
737
687
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
740
685
-
661
633
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1319
-
-
1308
-
-
357
371
793
345
367
807
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
357
371
-
345
367
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
648
615
-
685
649
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
666
647
-
603
607
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
1.2
1.2
13.6
12.6
HCM LOS
B
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
470
1319
-
-
1308
-
-
532
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.11 0.035
-
- 0.024
-
- 0.114
HCM Control Delay (s)
13.6
7.8
0
-
7.8
0
-
12.6
HCM Lane LOS
B
A
A
-
A
A
-
B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.4
0.1
-
-
0.1
-
-
0.4
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 79 of 140
INPUT VOLUMES
Vehicles and pedestrians per 60 minutes
Site: 101 [4-Background (2025) PM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Volume Display Method: Total and %
All MCs
Light Vehicles (LV)
Heavy Vehicles (HV)
S: Felton Capel Lane
259
254
5
N: S Knoll Road
208
204
4
W: Voit Gilmore Lane
261
256
5
Total
728
713
15
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Created: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 12:17:36 PM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 80 of 140
MOVEMENT SUMMARY
Site: 101 [4-Background (2025) PM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Movement Performance - Vehicles
Demand Flows
95% Back of Queue
Mov
ID
Turn
Deg.
Satn
Average
Delay
Level of
Service
Prop.
Queued
Effective
Stop Rate
Aver. No.
Cycles
Average
Speed
Total
HV
Vehicles
Distance
veh/h
%
v/c
sec
veh
ft
mph
South: Felton Capel Lane
6
L2
87
2.0
0.334
6.3
LOS A
1.9
47.4
0.39
0.24
0.39
24.4
7
T1
300
2.0
0.334
6.3
LOS A
1.9
47.4
0.39
0.24
0.39
24.0
Approach
387
2.0
0.334
6.3
LOS A
1.9
47.4
0.39
0.24
0.39
24.1
North: S Knoll Road
1
T1
239
2.0
0.253
5.2
LOS A
1.3
33.6
0.28
0.14
0.28
32.0
2
R2
72
2.0
0.253
5.2
LOS A
1.3
33.6
0.28
0.14
0.28
31.1
Approach
310
2.0
0.253
5.2
LOS A
1.3
33.6
0.28
0.14
0.28
31.8
West: Voit Gilmore Lane
3
U
7
2.0
0.369
7.2
LOS A
2.0
51.8
0.49
0.37
0.49
28.0
4
L2
143
2.0
0.369
7.2
LOS A
2.0
51.8
0.49
0.37
0.49
24.0
5
R2
239
2.0
0.369
7.2
LOS A
2.0
51.8
0.49
0.37
0.49
22.9
Approach
390
2.0
0.369
7.2
LOS A
2.0
51.8
0.49
0.37
0.49
23.4
All Vehicles
1087
2.0
0.369
6.3
LOS A
2.0
51.8
0.39
0.26
0.39
25.6
Site Level of Service (LOS) Method: Delay & v/c (HCM 6). Site LOS Method is specified in the Parameter Settings dialog (Site tab).
Roundabout LOS Method: Same as Sign Control.
Vehicle movement LOS values are based on average delay and v/c ratio (degree of saturation) per movement.
LOS F will result if v/c > 1 irrespective of movement delay value (does not apply for approaches and intersection).
Intersection and Approach LOS values are based on average delay for all movements (v/c not used as specified in HCM 6).
Roundabout Capacity Model: US HCM 6.
HCM Delay Formula option is used. Control Delay does not include Geometric Delay since Exclude Geometric Delay option applies.
Gap-Acceptance Capacity: Traditional M1.
HV (%) values are calculated for All Movement Classes of All Heavy Vehicle Model Designation.
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Processed: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 10:47:23 AM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 81 of 140
Mid South
Background (2025) PM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\4-Background PM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
WBL
WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
33
12
260
37
11
317
Future Volume (vph)
33
12
260
37
11
317
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
1683
0
1831
0
0
1859
Flt Permitted
0.965
0.998
Satd. Flow (perm)
1683
0
1831
0
0
1859
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
620
541
657
Travel Time (s)
14.1
12.3
14.9
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
2
Peak Hour Factor
0.75
0.75
0.75
0.75
0.75
0.75
Heavy Vehicles (%)
5%
5%
2%
2%
2%
2%
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
60
0
396
0
0
438
Sign Control
Stop
Free
Free
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 36.2%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 82 of 140
Mid South
Background (2025) PM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\4-Background PM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.2
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
33
12
260
37
11
317
Future Vol, veh/h
33
12
260
37
11
317
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
2
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
75
75
75
75
75
75
Heavy Vehicles, %
5
5
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
44
16
347
49
15
423
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
825
374
0
0
396
0
          Stage 1
372
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
453
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.45
6.25
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.45
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.45
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.545 3.345
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
338
666
-
-
1163
-
          Stage 1
691
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
634
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
332
665
-
-
1163
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
332
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
691
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
623
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
16.1
0
0.3
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
383
1163
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.157 0.013
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
16.1
8.1
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.6
0
-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 83 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2025) AM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\5-Build AM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
57
207
23
45
207
4
38
24
52
4
14
29
Future Volume (vph)
57
207
23
45
207
4
38
24
52
4
14
29
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
0
1824
0
0
1842
0
0
1721
0
0
1699
0
Flt Permitted
0.990
0.991
0.984
0.996
Satd. Flow (perm)
0
1824
0
0
1842
0
0
1721
0
0
1699
0
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
576
576
325
345
Travel Time (s)
13.1
13.1
7.4
7.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
4
1
1
4
2
2
Peak Hour Factor
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
0
305
0
0
272
0
0
121
0
0
50
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 41.6%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 84 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2025) AM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\5-Build AM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
4.7
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
57
207
23
45
207
4
38
24
52
4
14
29
Future Vol, veh/h
57
207
23
45
207
4
38
24
52
4
14
29
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
4
0
1
1
0
4
0
0
2
2
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
61
220
24
48
220
4
40
26
55
4
15
31
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
228
0
0
245
0
0
696
679
235
719
689
226
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
355
355
-
322
322
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
341
324
-
397
367
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1340
-
-
1321
-
-
356
374
804
344
369
813
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
662
630
-
690
651
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
674
650
-
629
622
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1335
-
-
1320
-
-
307
338
802
279
333
810
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
307
338
-
279
333
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
626
596
-
651
621
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
606
620
-
530
588
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
1.6
1.4
16.3
12.8
HCM LOS
C
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
439
1335
-
-
1320
-
-
510
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.276 0.045
-
- 0.036
-
- 0.098
HCM Control Delay (s)
16.3
7.8
0
-
7.8
0
-
12.8
HCM Lane LOS
C
A
A
-
A
A
-
B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
1.1
0.1
-
-
0.1
-
-
0.3
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 85 of 140
INPUT VOLUMES
Vehicles and pedestrians per 60 minutes
Site: 101 [5-Build (2025) AM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Volume Display Method: Total and %
All MCs
Light Vehicles (LV)
Heavy Vehicles (HV)
S: Felton Capel Lane
366
359
7
N: S Knoll Road
274
269
5
W: Voit Gilmore Lane
405
397
8
Total
1045
1024
21
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Created: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 12:17:44 PM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 86 of 140
MOVEMENT SUMMARY
Site: 101 [5-Build (2025) AM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Movement Performance - Vehicles
Demand Flows
95% Back of Queue
Mov
ID
Turn
Deg.
Satn
Average
Delay
Level of
Service
Prop.
Queued
Effective
Stop Rate
Aver. No.
Cycles
Average
Speed
Total
HV
Vehicles
Distance
veh/h
%
v/c
sec
veh
ft
mph
South: Felton Capel Lane
6
L2
294
2.0
0.486
8.8
LOS A
3.1
79.9
0.53
0.39
0.53
23.4
7
T1
236
2.0
0.486
8.8
LOS A
3.1
79.9
0.53
0.39
0.53
23.0
Approach
530
2.0
0.486
8.8
LOS A
3.1
79.9
0.53
0.39
0.53
23.2
North: S Knoll Road
1
T1
168
2.0
0.407
8.2
LOS A
2.2
56.9
0.57
0.48
0.57
30.6
2
R2
229
2.0
0.407
8.2
LOS A
2.2
56.9
0.57
0.48
0.57
29.8
Approach
397
2.0
0.407
8.2
LOS A
2.2
56.9
0.57
0.48
0.57
30.2
West: Voit Gilmore Lane
3
U
20
2.0
0.517
9.1
LOS A
3.6
91.6
0.51
0.35
0.51
27.5
4
L2
186
2.0
0.517
9.1
LOS A
3.6
91.6
0.51
0.35
0.51
23.6
5
R2
381
2.0
0.517
9.1
LOS A
3.6
91.6
0.51
0.35
0.51
22.6
Approach
587
2.0
0.517
9.1
LOS A
3.6
91.6
0.51
0.35
0.51
23.1
All Vehicles
1514
2.0
0.517
8.8
LOS A
3.6
91.6
0.54
0.40
0.54
24.6
Site Level of Service (LOS) Method: Delay & v/c (HCM 6). Site LOS Method is specified in the Parameter Settings dialog (Site tab).
Roundabout LOS Method: Same as Sign Control.
Vehicle movement LOS values are based on average delay and v/c ratio (degree of saturation) per movement.
LOS F will result if v/c > 1 irrespective of movement delay value (does not apply for approaches and intersection).
Intersection and Approach LOS values are based on average delay for all movements (v/c not used as specified in HCM 6).
Roundabout Capacity Model: US HCM 6.
HCM Delay Formula option is used. Control Delay does not include Geometric Delay since Exclude Geometric Delay option applies.
Gap-Acceptance Capacity: Traditional M1.
HV (%) values are calculated for All Movement Classes of All Heavy Vehicle Model Designation.
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Processed: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 10:47:24 AM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 87 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2025) AM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\5-Build AM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
WBL
WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
35
19
337
19
4
404
Future Volume (vph)
35
19
337
19
4
404
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
1718
0
1850
0
0
1863
Flt Permitted
0.969
Satd. Flow (perm)
1718
0
1850
0
0
1863
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
620
541
657
Travel Time (s)
14.1
12.3
14.9
Peak Hour Factor
0.77
0.77
0.77
0.77
0.77
0.77
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
70
0
463
0
0
530
Sign Control
Stop
Free
Free
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 34.5%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 88 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2025) AM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\5-Build AM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.3
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
35
19
337
19
4
404
Future Vol, veh/h
35
19
337
19
4
404
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
77
77
77
77
77
77
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
45
25
438
25
5
525
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
986
451
0
0
463
0
          Stage 1
451
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
535
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.42
6.22
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
275
608
-
-
1098
-
          Stage 1
642
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
587
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
273
608
-
-
1098
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
273
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
642
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
583
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
18.4
0
0.1
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
339
1098
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.207 0.005
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
18.4
8.3
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.8
0
-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 89 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2025) PM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\6-Build PM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
45
228
36
43
167
4
25
16
29
4
27
34
Future Volume (vph)
45
228
36
43
167
4
25
16
29
4
27
34
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
0
1820
0
0
1840
0
0
1727
0
0
1725
0
Flt Permitted
0.993
0.990
0.982
0.997
Satd. Flow (perm)
0
1820
0
0
1840
0
0
1727
0
0
1725
0
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
576
576
325
345
Travel Time (s)
13.1
13.1
7.4
7.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
33
33
Peak Hour Factor
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
0
318
0
0
220
0
0
72
0
0
67
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 37.8%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 90 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2025) PM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\6-Build PM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
4
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
45
228
36
43
167
4
25
16
29
4
27
34
Future Vol, veh/h
45
228
36
43
167
4
25
16
29
4
27
34
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
33
0
0
0
0
33
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
46
235
37
44
172
4
26
16
30
4
28
35
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
209
0
0
272
0
0
640
643
254
664
659
207
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
346
346
-
295
295
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
294
297
-
369
364
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1362
-
-
1291
-
-
388
392
785
374
384
833
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
670
635
-
713
669
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
714
668
-
651
624
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1319
-
-
1291
-
-
328
350
785
316
343
807
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
328
350
-
316
343
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
643
609
-
662
624
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
628
623
-
584
598
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
1.1
1.6
14.8
13.6
HCM LOS
B
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
441
1319
-
-
1291
-
-
487
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.164 0.035
-
- 0.034
-
- 0.138
HCM Control Delay (s)
14.8
7.8
0
-
7.9
0
-
13.6
HCM Lane LOS
B
A
A
-
A
A
-
B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.6
0.1
-
-
0.1
-
-
0.5
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 91 of 140
INPUT VOLUMES
Vehicles and pedestrians per 60 minutes
Site: 101 [6-Build (2025) PM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Volume Display Method: Total and %
All MCs
Light Vehicles (LV)
Heavy Vehicles (HV)
S: Felton Capel Lane
267
262
5
N: S Knoll Road
216
212
4
W: Voit Gilmore Lane
269
264
5
Total
752
737
15
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Created: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 12:17:52 PM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 92 of 140
MOVEMENT SUMMARY
Site: 101 [6-Build (2025) PM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Movement Performance - Vehicles
Demand Flows
95% Back of Queue
Mov
ID
Turn
Deg.
Satn
Average
Delay
Level of
Service
Prop.
Queued
Effective
Stop Rate
Aver. No.
Cycles
Average
Speed
Total
HV
Vehicles
Distance
veh/h
%
v/c
sec
veh
ft
mph
South: Felton Capel Lane
6
L2
87
2.0
0.349
6.6
LOS A
2.0
50.0
0.41
0.26
0.41
24.4
7
T1
312
2.0
0.349
6.6
LOS A
2.0
50.0
0.41
0.26
0.41
23.9
Approach
399
2.0
0.349
6.6
LOS A
2.0
50.0
0.41
0.26
0.41
24.0
North: S Knoll Road
1
T1
245
2.0
0.263
5.3
LOS A
1.4
35.3
0.28
0.14
0.28
32.0
2
R2
78
2.0
0.263
5.3
LOS A
1.4
35.3
0.28
0.14
0.28
31.1
Approach
322
2.0
0.263
5.3
LOS A
1.4
35.3
0.28
0.14
0.28
31.8
West: Voit Gilmore Lane
3
U
7
2.0
0.383
7.5
LOS A
2.1
54.3
0.51
0.39
0.51
27.9
4
L2
155
2.0
0.383
7.5
LOS A
2.1
54.3
0.51
0.39
0.51
23.9
5
R2
239
2.0
0.383
7.5
LOS A
2.1
54.3
0.51
0.39
0.51
22.9
Approach
401
2.0
0.383
7.5
LOS A
2.1
54.3
0.51
0.39
0.51
23.3
All Vehicles
1122
2.0
0.383
6.5
LOS A
2.1
54.3
0.41
0.27
0.41
25.5
Site Level of Service (LOS) Method: Delay & v/c (HCM 6). Site LOS Method is specified in the Parameter Settings dialog (Site tab).
Roundabout LOS Method: Same as Sign Control.
Vehicle movement LOS values are based on average delay and v/c ratio (degree of saturation) per movement.
LOS F will result if v/c > 1 irrespective of movement delay value (does not apply for approaches and intersection).
Intersection and Approach LOS values are based on average delay for all movements (v/c not used as specified in HCM 6).
Roundabout Capacity Model: US HCM 6.
HCM Delay Formula option is used. Control Delay does not include Geometric Delay since Exclude Geometric Delay option applies.
Gap-Acceptance Capacity: Traditional M1.
HV (%) values are calculated for All Movement Classes of All Heavy Vehicle Model Designation.
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Processed: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 10:47:24 AM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 93 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2025) PM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\6-Build PM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
WBL
WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
35
12
268
41
11
321
Future Volume (vph)
35
12
268
41
11
321
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
1685
0
1829
0
0
1859
Flt Permitted
0.964
0.998
Satd. Flow (perm)
1685
0
1829
0
0
1859
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
620
541
657
Travel Time (s)
14.1
12.3
14.9
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
2
Peak Hour Factor
0.75
0.75
0.75
0.75
0.75
0.75
Heavy Vehicles (%)
5%
5%
2%
2%
2%
2%
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
63
0
412
0
0
443
Sign Control
Stop
Free
Free
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 36.4%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 94 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2025) PM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\6-Build PM (2025).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.3
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
35
12
268
41
11
321
Future Vol, veh/h
35
12
268
41
11
321
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
2
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
75
75
75
75
75
75
Heavy Vehicles, %
5
5
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
47
16
357
55
15
428
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
843
387
0
0
412
0
          Stage 1
385
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
458
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.45
6.25
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.45
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.45
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.545 3.345
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
330
654
-
-
1147
-
          Stage 1
681
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
631
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
324
653
-
-
1147
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
324
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
681
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
620
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
16.6
0
0.3
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
372
1147
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.168 0.013
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
16.6
8.2
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.6
0
-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 95 of 140
Mid South
Background (2030) AM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\7-Background AM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
60
218
19
43
218
4
25
20
42
4
13
30
Future Volume (vph)
60
218
19
43
218
4
25
20
42
4
13
30
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
0
1828
0
0
1844
0
0
1717
0
0
1696
0
Flt Permitted
0.990
0.992
0.986
0.996
Satd. Flow (perm)
0
1828
0
0
1844
0
0
1717
0
0
1696
0
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
576
576
325
345
Travel Time (s)
13.1
13.1
7.4
7.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
4
1
1
4
2
2
Peak Hour Factor
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
0
316
0
0
282
0
0
93
0
0
50
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 41.4%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 96 of 140
Mid South
Background (2030) AM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\7-Background AM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
4
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
60
218
19
43
218
4
25
20
42
4
13
30
Future Vol, veh/h
60
218
19
43
218
4
25
20
42
4
13
30
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
4
0
1
1
0
4
0
0
2
2
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
64
232
20
46
232
4
27
21
45
4
14
32
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
240
0
0
253
0
0
720
703
245
735
711
238
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
371
371
-
330
330
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
349
332
-
405
381
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1327
-
-
1312
-
-
343
362
794
335
358
801
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
649
620
-
683
646
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
667
644
-
622
613
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1322
-
-
1311
-
-
296
327
792
277
323
798
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
296
327
-
277
323
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
612
585
-
642
618
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
601
616
-
533
578
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
1.6
1.3
15.4
12.8
HCM LOS
C
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
438
1322
-
-
1311
-
-
509
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.211 0.048
-
- 0.035
-
- 0.098
HCM Control Delay (s)
15.4
7.9
0
-
7.8
0
-
12.8
HCM Lane LOS
C
A
A
-
A
A
-
B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.8
0.2
-
-
0.1
-
-
0.3
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 97 of 140
INPUT VOLUMES
Vehicles and pedestrians per 60 minutes
Site: 101 [7-Background (2030) AM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Volume Display Method: Total and %
All MCs
Light Vehicles (LV)
Heavy Vehicles (HV)
S: Felton Capel Lane
382
374
8
N: S Knoll Road
274
269
5
W: Voit Gilmore Lane
423
415
8
Total
1079
1057
22
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Created: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 12:17:59 PM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 98 of 140
MOVEMENT SUMMARY
Site: 101 [7-Background (2030) AM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Movement Performance - Vehicles
Demand Flows
95% Back of Queue
Mov
ID
Turn
Deg.
Satn
Average
Delay
Level of
Service
Prop.
Queued
Effective
Stop Rate
Aver. No.
Cycles
Average
Speed
Total
HV
Vehicles
Distance
veh/h
%
v/c
sec
veh
ft
mph
South: Felton Capel Lane
6
L2
309
2.0
0.511
9.3
LOS A
3.4
86.3
0.56
0.42
0.56
23.3
7
T1
245
2.0
0.511
9.3
LOS A
3.4
86.3
0.56
0.42
0.56
22.9
Approach
554
2.0
0.511
9.3
LOS A
3.4
86.3
0.56
0.42
0.56
23.1
North: S Knoll Road
1
T1
167
2.0
0.414
8.4
LOS A
2.3
57.7
0.59
0.50
0.59
30.6
2
R2
230
2.0
0.414
8.4
LOS A
2.3
57.7
0.59
0.50
0.59
29.7
Approach
397
2.0
0.414
8.4
LOS A
2.3
57.7
0.59
0.50
0.59
30.1
West: Voit Gilmore Lane
3
U
22
2.0
0.539
9.5
LOS A
3.9
98.8
0.53
0.36
0.53
27.4
4
L2
191
2.0
0.539
9.5
LOS A
3.9
98.8
0.53
0.36
0.53
23.5
5
R2
400
2.0
0.539
9.5
LOS A
3.9
98.8
0.53
0.36
0.53
22.5
Approach
613
2.0
0.539
9.5
LOS A
3.9
98.8
0.53
0.36
0.53
23.0
All Vehicles
1564
2.0
0.539
9.2
LOS A
3.9
98.8
0.55
0.42
0.55
24.5
Site Level of Service (LOS) Method: Delay & v/c (HCM 6). Site LOS Method is specified in the Parameter Settings dialog (Site tab).
Roundabout LOS Method: Same as Sign Control.
Vehicle movement LOS values are based on average delay and v/c ratio (degree of saturation) per movement.
LOS F will result if v/c > 1 irrespective of movement delay value (does not apply for approaches and intersection).
Intersection and Approach LOS values are based on average delay for all movements (v/c not used as specified in HCM 6).
Roundabout Capacity Model: US HCM 6.
HCM Delay Formula option is used. Control Delay does not include Geometric Delay since Exclude Geometric Delay option applies.
Gap-Acceptance Capacity: Traditional M1.
HV (%) values are calculated for All Movement Classes of All Heavy Vehicle Model Designation.
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Processed: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 10:47:24 AM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 99 of 140
Mid South
Background (2030) AM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\7-Background AM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
WBL
WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
34
20
352
19
4
417
Future Volume (vph)
34
20
352
19
4
417
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
1717
0
1850
0
0
1863
Flt Permitted
0.970
Satd. Flow (perm)
1717
0
1850
0
0
1863
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
620
541
657
Travel Time (s)
14.1
12.3
14.9
Peak Hour Factor
0.77
0.77
0.77
0.77
0.77
0.77
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
70
0
482
0
0
547
Sign Control
Stop
Free
Free
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 35.1%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 100 of 140
Mid South
Background (2030) AM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\7-Background AM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.3
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
34
20
352
19
4
417
Future Vol, veh/h
34
20
352
19
4
417
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
77
77
77
77
77
77
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
44
26
457
25
5
542
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
1022
470
0
0
482
0
          Stage 1
470
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
552
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.42
6.22
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
261
594
-
-
1081
-
          Stage 1
629
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
577
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
259
594
-
-
1081
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
259
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
629
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
573
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
19
0
0.1
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
327
1081
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.214 0.005
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
19
8.3
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.8
0
-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 101 of 140
Mid South
Background (2030) PM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\8-Background PM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
47
240
22
32
176
4
17
14
22
4
22
36
Future Volume (vph)
47
240
22
32
176
4
17
14
22
4
22
36
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
0
1831
0
0
1844
0
0
1730
0
0
1712
0
Flt Permitted
0.993
0.992
0.984
0.997
Satd. Flow (perm)
0
1831
0
0
1844
0
0
1730
0
0
1712
0
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
576
576
325
345
Travel Time (s)
13.1
13.1
7.4
7.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
33
33
Peak Hour Factor
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
0
318
0
0
218
0
0
55
0
0
64
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 37.4%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 102 of 140
Mid South
Background (2030) PM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\8-Background PM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
3.4
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
47
240
22
32
176
4
17
14
22
4
22
36
Future Vol, veh/h
47
240
22
32
176
4
17
14
22
4
22
36
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
33
0
0
0
0
33
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
48
247
23
33
181
4
18
14
23
4
23
37
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
218
0
0
270
0
0
634
639
259
655
648
216
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
355
355
-
282
282
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
279
284
-
373
366
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1352
-
-
1293
-
-
392
394
780
379
389
824
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
662
630
-
725
678
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
728
676
-
648
623
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1310
-
-
1293
-
-
336
355
780
327
350
798
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
336
355
-
327
350
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
634
603
-
672
639
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
651
637
-
588
596
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
1.2
1.2
14.1
13
HCM LOS
B
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
448
1310
-
-
1293
-
-
516
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.122 0.037
-
- 0.026
-
- 0.124
HCM Control Delay (s)
14.1
7.9
0
-
7.9
0
-
13
HCM Lane LOS
B
A
A
-
A
A
-
B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.4
0.1
-
-
0.1
-
-
0.4
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 103 of 140
INPUT VOLUMES
Vehicles and pedestrians per 60 minutes
Site: 101 [8-Background (2030) PM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Volume Display Method: Total and %
All MCs
Light Vehicles (LV)
Heavy Vehicles (HV)
S: Felton Capel Lane
272
267
5
N: S Knoll Road
218
214
4
W: Voit Gilmore Lane
274
269
5
Total
764
749
15
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Created: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 12:18:07 PM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 104 of 140
MOVEMENT SUMMARY
Site: 101 [8-Background (2030) PM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Movement Performance - Vehicles
Demand Flows
95% Back of Queue
Mov
ID
Turn
Deg.
Satn
Average
Delay
Level of
Service
Prop.
Queued
Effective
Stop Rate
Aver. No.
Cycles
Average
Speed
Total
HV
Vehicles
Distance
veh/h
%
v/c
sec
veh
ft
mph
South: Felton Capel Lane
6
L2
91
2.0
0.354
6.6
LOS A
2.0
51.1
0.40
0.26
0.40
24.4
7
T1
315
2.0
0.354
6.6
LOS A
2.0
51.1
0.40
0.26
0.40
23.9
Approach
406
2.0
0.354
6.6
LOS A
2.0
51.1
0.40
0.26
0.40
24.0
North: S Knoll Road
1
T1
251
2.0
0.266
5.3
LOS A
1.4
35.9
0.29
0.15
0.29
32.0
2
R2
75
2.0
0.266
5.3
LOS A
1.4
35.9
0.29
0.15
0.29
31.1
Approach
325
2.0
0.266
5.3
LOS A
1.4
35.9
0.29
0.15
0.29
31.8
West: Voit Gilmore Lane
3
U
7
2.0
0.392
7.6
LOS A
2.2
56.1
0.52
0.40
0.52
27.9
4
L2
151
2.0
0.392
7.6
LOS A
2.2
56.1
0.52
0.40
0.52
23.9
5
R2
251
2.0
0.392
7.6
LOS A
2.2
56.1
0.52
0.40
0.52
22.8
Approach
409
2.0
0.392
7.6
LOS A
2.2
56.1
0.52
0.40
0.52
23.3
All Vehicles
1140
2.0
0.392
6.6
LOS A
2.2
56.1
0.41
0.28
0.41
25.5
Site Level of Service (LOS) Method: Delay & v/c (HCM 6). Site LOS Method is specified in the Parameter Settings dialog (Site tab).
Roundabout LOS Method: Same as Sign Control.
Vehicle movement LOS values are based on average delay and v/c ratio (degree of saturation) per movement.
LOS F will result if v/c > 1 irrespective of movement delay value (does not apply for approaches and intersection).
Intersection and Approach LOS values are based on average delay for all movements (v/c not used as specified in HCM 6).
Roundabout Capacity Model: US HCM 6.
HCM Delay Formula option is used. Control Delay does not include Geometric Delay since Exclude Geometric Delay option applies.
Gap-Acceptance Capacity: Traditional M1.
HV (%) values are calculated for All Movement Classes of All Heavy Vehicle Model Designation.
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Processed: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 10:47:25 AM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 105 of 140
Mid South
Background (2030) PM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\8-Background PM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
WBL
WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
35
13
273
39
12
333
Future Volume (vph)
35
13
273
39
12
333
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
1683
0
1831
0
0
1859
Flt Permitted
0.965
0.998
Satd. Flow (perm)
1683
0
1831
0
0
1859
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
620
541
657
Travel Time (s)
14.1
12.3
14.9
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
2
Peak Hour Factor
0.75
0.75
0.75
0.75
0.75
0.75
Heavy Vehicles (%)
5%
5%
2%
2%
2%
2%
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
64
0
416
0
0
460
Sign Control
Stop
Free
Free
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 37.9%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 106 of 140
Mid South
Background (2030) PM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\8-Background PM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.3
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
35
13
273
39
12
333
Future Vol, veh/h
35
13
273
39
12
333
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
2
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
75
75
75
75
75
75
Heavy Vehicles, %
5
5
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
47
17
364
52
16
444
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
866
392
0
0
416
0
          Stage 1
390
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
476
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.45
6.25
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.45
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.45
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.545 3.345
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
320
650
-
-
1143
-
          Stage 1
678
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
619
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
314
649
-
-
1143
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
314
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
678
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
607
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
16.9
0
0.3
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
365
1143
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.175 0.014
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
16.9
8.2
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.6
0
-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 107 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2030) AM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\9-Build AM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
60
218
24
47
218
4
39
25
54
4
15
30
Future Volume (vph)
60
218
24
47
218
4
39
25
54
4
15
30
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
0
1824
0
0
1842
0
0
1719
0
0
1701
0
Flt Permitted
0.990
0.991
0.984
0.996
Satd. Flow (perm)
0
1824
0
0
1842
0
0
1719
0
0
1701
0
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
576
576
325
345
Travel Time (s)
13.1
13.1
7.4
7.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
4
1
1
4
2
2
Peak Hour Factor
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
0.94
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
0
322
0
0
286
0
0
125
0
0
52
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 43.0%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 108 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2030) AM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\9-Build AM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
4.8
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
60
218
24
47
218
4
39
25
54
4
15
30
Future Vol, veh/h
60
218
24
47
218
4
39
25
54
4
15
30
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
4
0
1
1
0
4
0
0
2
2
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
94
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
64
232
26
50
232
4
41
27
57
4
16
32
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
240
0
0
259
0
0
732
714
248
755
725
238
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
374
374
-
338
338
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
358
340
-
417
387
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1327
-
-
1306
-
-
337
357
791
325
352
801
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
647
618
-
676
641
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
660
639
-
613
610
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1322
-
-
1305
-
-
287
320
789
260
316
798
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
287
320
-
260
316
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
609
582
-
635
610
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
590
608
-
511
575
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
1.6
1.4
17.3
13.3
HCM LOS
C
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
418
1322
-
-
1305
-
-
488
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.3 0.048
-
- 0.038
-
- 0.107
HCM Control Delay (s)
17.3
7.9
0
-
7.9
0
-
13.3
HCM Lane LOS
C
A
A
-
A
A
-
B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
1.2
0.2
-
-
0.1
-
-
0.4
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 109 of 140
INPUT VOLUMES
Vehicles and pedestrians per 60 minutes
Site: 101 [9-Build (2030) AM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Volume Display Method: Total and %
All MCs
Light Vehicles (LV)
Heavy Vehicles (HV)
S: Felton Capel Lane
384
376
8
N: S Knoll Road
288
282
6
W: Voit Gilmore Lane
425
417
9
Total
1097
1075
22
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Created: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 12:18:15 PM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 110 of 140
MOVEMENT SUMMARY
Site: 101 [9-Build (2030) AM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Movement Performance - Vehicles
Demand Flows
95% Back of Queue
Mov
ID
Turn
Deg.
Satn
Average
Delay
Level of
Service
Prop.
Queued
Effective
Stop Rate
Aver. No.
Cycles
Average
Speed
Total
HV
Vehicles
Distance
veh/h
%
v/c
sec
veh
ft
mph
South: Felton Capel Lane
6
L2
309
2.0
0.515
9.4
LOS A
3.4
87.2
0.57
0.42
0.57
23.3
7
T1
248
2.0
0.515
9.4
LOS A
3.4
87.2
0.57
0.42
0.57
22.8
Approach
557
2.0
0.515
9.4
LOS A
3.4
87.2
0.57
0.42
0.57
23.1
North: S Knoll Road
1
T1
177
2.0
0.435
8.8
LOS A
2.4
61.9
0.60
0.51
0.60
30.4
2
R2
241
2.0
0.435
8.8
LOS A
2.4
61.9
0.60
0.51
0.60
29.6
Approach
417
2.0
0.435
8.8
LOS A
2.4
61.9
0.60
0.51
0.60
29.9
West: Voit Gilmore Lane
3
U
22
2.0
0.547
9.7
LOS A
4.0
100.5
0.55
0.38
0.55
27.3
4
L2
194
2.0
0.547
9.7
LOS A
4.0
100.5
0.55
0.38
0.55
23.5
5
R2
400
2.0
0.547
9.7
LOS A
4.0
100.5
0.55
0.38
0.55
22.5
Approach
616
2.0
0.547
9.7
LOS A
4.0
100.5
0.55
0.38
0.55
22.9
All Vehicles
1590
2.0
0.547
9.4
LOS A
4.0
100.5
0.57
0.43
0.57
24.5
Site Level of Service (LOS) Method: Delay & v/c (HCM 6). Site LOS Method is specified in the Parameter Settings dialog (Site tab).
Roundabout LOS Method: Same as Sign Control.
Vehicle movement LOS values are based on average delay and v/c ratio (degree of saturation) per movement.
LOS F will result if v/c > 1 irrespective of movement delay value (does not apply for approaches and intersection).
Intersection and Approach LOS values are based on average delay for all movements (v/c not used as specified in HCM 6).
Roundabout Capacity Model: US HCM 6.
HCM Delay Formula option is used. Control Delay does not include Geometric Delay since Exclude Geometric Delay option applies.
Gap-Acceptance Capacity: Traditional M1.
HV (%) values are calculated for All Movement Classes of All Heavy Vehicle Model Designation.
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Processed: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 10:47:25 AM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 111 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2030) AM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\9-Build AM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
WBL
WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
37
20
354
20
4
424
Future Volume (vph)
37
20
354
20
4
424
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
1720
0
1850
0
0
1863
Flt Permitted
0.969
Satd. Flow (perm)
1720
0
1850
0
0
1863
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
620
541
657
Travel Time (s)
14.1
12.3
14.9
Peak Hour Factor
0.77
0.77
0.77
0.77
0.77
0.77
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
74
0
486
0
0
556
Sign Control
Stop
Free
Free
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 35.5%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 112 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2030) AM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\9-Build AM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.4
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
37
20
354
20
4
424
Future Vol, veh/h
37
20
354
20
4
424
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
77
77
77
77
77
77
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
48
26
460
26
5
551
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
1034
473
0
0
486
0
          Stage 1
473
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
561
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.42
6.22
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.42
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.518 3.318
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
257
591
-
-
1077
-
          Stage 1
627
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
571
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
255
591
-
-
1077
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
255
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
627
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
567
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
19.7
0
0.1
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
319
1077
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.232 0.005
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
19.7
8.4
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.9
0
-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 113 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2030) PM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\10-Build PM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
47
240
37
45
176
4
26
17
30
4
28
36
Future Volume (vph)
47
240
37
45
176
4
26
17
30
4
28
36
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
0
1822
0
0
1840
0
0
1730
0
0
1725
0
Flt Permitted
0.993
0.990
0.983
0.997
Satd. Flow (perm)
0
1822
0
0
1840
0
0
1730
0
0
1725
0
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
576
576
325
345
Travel Time (s)
13.1
13.1
7.4
7.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
33
33
Peak Hour Factor
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.97
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
0
333
0
0
231
0
0
76
0
0
70
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 38.9%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 114 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2030) PM
1: Palmer Drive & S Knoll Road
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\10-Build PM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
4
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
47
240
37
45
176
4
26
17
30
4
28
36
Future Vol, veh/h
47
240
37
45
176
4
26
17
30
4
28
36
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
33
0
0
0
0
33
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
Stop
RT Channelized
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
-
- None
Storage Length
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Grade, %
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
-
0
-
Peak Hour Factor
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
97
Heavy Vehicles, %
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
48
247
38
46
181
4
27
18
31
4
29
37
 
Major/Minor
Major1
Major2
Minor1
Minor2
Conflicting Flow All
218
0
0
285
0
0
670
672
266
695
689
216
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
362
362
-
308
308
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
308
310
-
387
381
-
Critical Hdwy
4.12
-
-
4.12
-
-
7.12
6.52
6.22
7.12
6.52
6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.12
5.52
-
6.12
5.52
-
Follow-up Hdwy
2.218
-
- 2.218
-
- 3.518 4.018 3.318 3.518 4.018 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
1352
-
-
1277
-
-
371
377
773
357
369
824
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
657
625
-
702
660
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
702
659
-
637
613
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
1310
-
-
1277
-
-
309
335
773
299
328
798
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
-
-
-
-
-
-
309
335
-
299
328
-
          Stage 1
-
-
-
-
-
-
628
598
-
650
614
-
          Stage 2
-
-
-
-
-
-
612
613
-
567
586
-
 
Approach
EB
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
1.1
1.6
15.4
13.9
HCM LOS
C
B
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBLn1
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)
420
1310
-
-
1277
-
-
473
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
0.179 0.037
-
- 0.036
-
- 0.148
HCM Control Delay (s)
15.4
7.9
0
-
7.9
0
-
13.9
HCM Lane LOS
C
A
A
-
A
A
-
B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
0.6
0.1
-
-
0.1
-
-
0.5
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 115 of 140
INPUT VOLUMES
Vehicles and pedestrians per 60 minutes
Site: 101 [10-Build (2030) PM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Volume Display Method: Total and %
All MCs
Light Vehicles (LV)
Heavy Vehicles (HV)
S: Felton Capel Lane
280
274
6
N: S Knoll Road
226
221
5
W: Voit Gilmore Lane
282
276
6
Total
788
772
16
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Created: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 12:18:23 PM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 116 of 140
MOVEMENT SUMMARY
Site: 101 [10-Build (2030) PM]
New Site
Site Category: (None)
Roundabout
Movement Performance - Vehicles
Demand Flows
95% Back of Queue
Mov
ID
Turn
Deg.
Satn
Average
Delay
Level of
Service
Prop.
Queued
Effective
Stop Rate
Aver. No.
Cycles
Average
Speed
Total
HV
Vehicles
Distance
veh/h
%
v/c
sec
veh
ft
mph
South: Felton Capel Lane
6
L2
91
2.0
0.369
6.9
LOS A
2.1
53.9
0.43
0.28
0.43
24.3
7
T1
327
2.0
0.369
6.9
LOS A
2.1
53.9
0.43
0.28
0.43
23.8
Approach
418
2.0
0.369
6.9
LOS A
2.1
53.9
0.43
0.28
0.43
23.9
North: S Knoll Road
1
T1
257
2.0
0.276
5.5
LOS A
1.5
37.6
0.29
0.15
0.29
31.9
2
R2
81
2.0
0.276
5.5
LOS A
1.5
37.6
0.29
0.15
0.29
31.0
Approach
337
2.0
0.276
5.5
LOS A
1.5
37.6
0.29
0.15
0.29
31.7
West: Voit Gilmore Lane
3
U
7
2.0
0.406
7.9
LOS A
2.3
58.7
0.53
0.41
0.53
27.8
4
L2
163
2.0
0.406
7.9
LOS A
2.3
58.7
0.53
0.41
0.53
23.8
5
R2
251
2.0
0.406
7.9
LOS A
2.3
58.7
0.53
0.41
0.53
22.8
Approach
421
2.0
0.406
7.9
LOS A
2.3
58.7
0.53
0.41
0.53
23.2
All Vehicles
1176
2.0
0.406
6.8
LOS A
2.3
58.7
0.42
0.29
0.42
25.4
Site Level of Service (LOS) Method: Delay & v/c (HCM 6). Site LOS Method is specified in the Parameter Settings dialog (Site tab).
Roundabout LOS Method: Same as Sign Control.
Vehicle movement LOS values are based on average delay and v/c ratio (degree of saturation) per movement.
LOS F will result if v/c > 1 irrespective of movement delay value (does not apply for approaches and intersection).
Intersection and Approach LOS values are based on average delay for all movements (v/c not used as specified in HCM 6).
Roundabout Capacity Model: US HCM 6.
HCM Delay Formula option is used. Control Delay does not include Geometric Delay since Exclude Geometric Delay option applies.
Gap-Acceptance Capacity: Traditional M1.
HV (%) values are calculated for All Movement Classes of All Heavy Vehicle Model Designation.
SIDRA INTERSECTION 8.0 | Copyright © 2000-2018 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd | sidrasolutions.com
Organisation: KIMLEY-HORN & ASSOCIATES INC | Processed: Tuesday, March 3, 2020 10:47:25 AM
Project: K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\SIDRA\S Knoll Road at Voit Gilmore Lane at Felton Capel Lane.sip8
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 117 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2030) PM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\10-Build PM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Lane Group
WBL
WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (vph)
37
13
281
43
12
337
Future Volume (vph)
37
13
281
43
12
337
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
1900
Satd. Flow (prot)
1683
0
1829
0
0
1859
Flt Permitted
0.964
0.998
Satd. Flow (perm)
1683
0
1829
0
0
1859
Link Speed (mph)
30
30
30
Link Distance (ft)
620
541
657
Travel Time (s)
14.1
12.3
14.9
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
2
Peak Hour Factor
0.75
0.75
0.75
0.75
0.75
0.75
Heavy Vehicles (%)
5%
5%
2%
2%
2%
2%
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
66
0
432
0
0
465
Sign Control
Stop
Free
Free
Intersection Summary
Area Type:
Other
Control Type: Unsignalized
Intersection Capacity Utilization 38.1%
ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 118 of 140
Mid South
Build-out (2030) PM
3: Felton Capel Lane & Plantation Drive
03/03/2020
K:\RAL_TPTO\_Traffic\014136000 Mid South\T4 - Analysis\Synchro\10-Build PM (2030).syn
Kimley-Horn
Synchro 10 Report
Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh
1.4
Movement
WBL WBR
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
Lane Configurations
Traffic Vol, veh/h
37
13
281
43
12
337
Future Vol, veh/h
37
13
281
43
12
337
Conflicting Peds, #/hr
0
2
0
0
0
0
Sign Control 
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Free
Free
RT Channelized
- None
- None
- None
Storage Length
0
-
-
-
-
-
Veh in Median Storage, #
0
-
0
-
-
0
Grade, %
0
-
0
-
-
0
Peak Hour Factor
75
75
75
75
75
75
Heavy Vehicles, %
5
5
2
2
2
2
Mvmt Flow
49
17
375
57
16
449
 
Major/Minor
Minor1
Major1
Major2
Conflicting Flow All
885
406
0
0
432
0
          Stage 1
404
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
481
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy
6.45
6.25
-
-
4.12
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 1
5.45
-
-
-
-
-
Critical Hdwy Stg 2
5.45
-
-
-
-
-
Follow-up Hdwy
3.545 3.345
-
- 2.218
-
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver
312
638
-
-
1128
-
          Stage 1
668
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
616
-
-
-
-
-
Platoon blocked, %
-
-
-
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver
306
637
-
-
1128
-
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver
306
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 1
668
-
-
-
-
-
          Stage 2
604
-
-
-
-
-
 
Approach
WB
NB
SB
HCM Control Delay, s
17.5
0
0.3
HCM LOS
C
 
Minor Lane/Major Mvmt
NBT
NBRWBLn1
SBL
SBT
Capacity (veh/h)
-
-
354
1128
-
HCM Lane V/C Ratio
-
- 0.188 0.014
-
HCM Control Delay (s)
-
-
17.5
8.2
0
HCM Lane LOS
-
-
C
A
A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)
-
-
0.7
0
-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 119 of 140
North Carolina Department of Transportation
Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis System
Intersection Analysis Report
Study Criteria Summary
MOORE
All and Rural
S Knoll Rd & Palmer Dr
Date:
County:
City:
Location:
to
1/1/2015
12/31/2019
Study:
41000059782
Report Details
Road
Ch Ci
Trfc Ctl
Dv Op
Condition
W
L
R
Injuries
C
B
A
F
Total
Damage
Accident Type
Date
Crash ID
Acc
No
1
1000
0
0
0
1
$
0
0
1
1
1
1
LEFT TURN, SAME ROADWAY
02/03/2015
14:06
104312353
Unit
Alchl/Drgs:
Dir:
Veh Mnvr / Ped Actn:
Obj Strk:
Speed:
MPH
1
0
35
E
4
1 :
Unit
Alchl/Drgs:
Dir:
Veh Mnvr / Ped Actn:
Obj Strk:
Speed:
MPH
1
0
35
W
4
2 :
2
4000
0
0
0
1
$
1
1
0
3
1
1
1
ANGLE
04/11/2016
14:26
104719766
Unit
Alchl/Drgs:
Dir:
Veh Mnvr / Ped Actn:
Obj Strk:
Speed:
MPH
1
0
10
W
12
1 :
Unit
Alchl/Drgs:
Dir:
Veh Mnvr / Ped Actn:
Obj Strk:
Speed:
MPH
4
0
20
S
4
2 :
3
1550
0
0
0
0
$
1
1
0
1
3
1
2
ANGLE
05/29/2016
12:45
104770041
Unit
Alchl/Drgs:
Dir:
Veh Mnvr / Ped Actn:
Obj Strk:
Speed:
MPH
1
0
5
W
8
1 :
Unit
Alchl/Drgs:
Dir:
Veh Mnvr / Ped Actn:
Obj Strk:
Speed:
MPH
1
0
25
S
4
2 :
4
1700
0
0
0
0
$
1
1
0
7
1
1
1
ANGLE
10/23/2016
10:49
104932888
Unit
Alchl/Drgs:
Dir:
Veh Mnvr / Ped Actn:
Obj Strk:
Speed:
MPH
4
0
5
N
12
1 :
Unit
Alchl/Drgs:
Dir:
Veh Mnvr / Ped Actn:
Obj Strk:
Speed:
MPH
1
0
35
W
4
2 :
5
7500
0
0
0
0
$
0
0
5
1
1
1
LEFT TURN, SAME ROADWAY
04/29/2019
07:56
105864810
Unit
Alchl/Drgs:
Dir:
Veh Mnvr / Ped Actn:
Obj Strk:
Speed:
MPH
2
0
10
S
8
1 :
Unit
Alchl/Drgs:
Dir:
Veh Mnvr / Ped Actn:
Obj Strk:
Speed:
MPH
1
0
20
N
4
2 :
6
4000
0
0
0
0
$
1
1
0
5
1
1
1
LEFT TURN, DIFFERENT
ROADWAYS
05/28/2019
10:20
105894326
Unit
Alchl/Drgs:
Dir:
Veh Mnvr / Ped Actn:
Obj Strk:
Speed:
MPH
1
0
10
N
8
1 :
Unit
Alchl/Drgs:
Dir:
Veh Mnvr / Ped Actn:
Obj Strk:
Speed:
MPH
1
0
0
E
1
2 :
7
17000
0
0
0
2
$
2
1
0
1
1
2
1
ANGLE
10/27/2019
18:13
106064818
Unit
Alchl/Drgs:
Dir:
Veh Mnvr / Ped Actn:
Obj Strk:
Speed:
MPH
1
0
5
W
12
1 :
Unit
Alchl/Drgs:
Dir:
Veh Mnvr / Ped Actn:
Obj Strk:
Speed:
MPH
1
0
35
S
4
2 :
Unit
Alchl/Drgs:
Dir:
Veh Mnvr / Ped Actn:
Obj Strk:
Speed:
MPH
1
0
0
E
1
3 :
01/30/2020
All data presented in this report comes explicitly from the Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis
System based upon various input criteria provided by the report's creator. The onus is strictly upon the user of this
report to exercise due diligence in interpreting and further representing this data.
-1-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 120 of 140
North Carolina Department of Transportation
Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis System
Intersection Analysis Report
Road
Ch Ci
Trfc Ctl
Dv Op
Condition
W
L
R
Injuries
C
B
A
F
Total
Damage
Accident Type
Date
Crash ID
Acc
No
Legend for
Report Details:
Acc No - Accident Number
Injuries: F - Fatal, A - Class A, B - Class B, C - Class C
Condition: R - Road Surface, L - Ambient Light, W - Weather
Rd Ch - Road Character
Rd Ci - Roadway Contributing Circumstances
Trfc Ctl - Traffic Control: Dv - Device, Op - Operating
Alchl/Drgs - Alcohol Drugs Suspected
Veh Mnvr/Ped Actn - Vehicle Maneuver/Pedestrian Action
Obj Strk - Object Struck
01/30/2020
All data presented in this report comes explicitly from the Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis
System based upon various input criteria provided by the report's creator. The onus is strictly upon the user of this
report to exercise due diligence in interpreting and further representing this data.
-2-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 121 of 140
North Carolina Department of Transportation
Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis System
Intersection Analysis Report
Summary Statistics
High Level Crash Summary
Crash Type
Number of
Crashes
Percent
of Total
7
100.00
Total Crashes
0
0.00
Fatal Crashes
3
42.86
Non-Fatal Injury Crashes
3
42.86
Total Injury Crashes
4
57.14
Property Damage Only Crashes
0
0.00
Night Crashes
1
14.29
Wet Crashes
0
0.00
Alcohol/Drugs Involvement Crashes
Crash Severity Summary
Crash Type
Number of
Crashes
Percent 
of Total
100.00
7
Total Crashes
0.00
0
Fatal Crashes
0.00
0
Class A Crashes
0.00
0
Class B Crashes
42.86
3
Class C Crashes
57.14
4
Property Damage Only Crashes
Vehicle Exposure Statistics
2000
Annual ADT =
3.65 (MEV)
Total Vehicle Exposure =
Crash Rate
Crashes Per 100 Million
Vehicles Entered
Total Crash Rate
191.68
Fatal Crash Rate
0.00
Non Fatal Crash Rate
82.15
Night Crash Rate
0.00
Wet Crash Rate
27.38
EPDO Rate
799.56
01/30/2020
All data presented in this report comes explicitly from the Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis
System based upon various input criteria provided by the report's creator. The onus is strictly upon the user of this
report to exercise due diligence in interpreting and further representing this data.
-3-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 122 of 140
North Carolina Department of Transportation
Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis System
Intersection Analysis Report
Miscellaneous Statistics
4.17
Severity Index =
29.20
EPDO Crash Index =
36750.00
Estimated Property Damage Total = $
Accident Type Summary
Accident Type
Number of
Crashes
Percent
of Total
ANGLE
4
57.14
LEFT TURN, DIFFERENT ROADWAYS
1
14.29
LEFT TURN, SAME ROADWAY
2
28.57
Injury Summary
Percent
of Total
Number of
Injuries
Injury Type
Fatal Injuries
0
0.00
Class A Injuries
0
0.00
Class B Injuries
0
0.00
Class C Injuries
4
100.00
Total Non-Fatal Injuries
4
100.00
Total Injuries
4
100.00
01/30/2020
All data presented in this report comes explicitly from the Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis
System based upon various input criteria provided by the report's creator. The onus is strictly upon the user of this
report to exercise due diligence in interpreting and further representing this data.
-4-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 123 of 140
North Carolina Department of Transportation
Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis System
Intersection Analysis Report
Monthly Summary
Month
Number of
Crashes
Percent
of Total
Jan
0
0.00
Feb
1
14.29
Mar
0
0.00
Apr
2
28.57
May
2
28.57
Jun
0
0.00
Jul
0
0.00
Aug
0
0.00
Sep
0
0.00
Oct
2
28.57
Nov
0
0.00
Dec
0
0.00
Daily Summary
Number of
Crashes
Day
Percent
of Total
Mon
2
28.57
Tue
2
28.57
Wed
0
0.00
Thu
0
0.00
Fri
0
0.00
Sat
0
0.00
Sun
3
42.86
01/30/2020
All data presented in this report comes explicitly from the Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis
System based upon various input criteria provided by the report's creator. The onus is strictly upon the user of this
report to exercise due diligence in interpreting and further representing this data.
-5-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 124 of 140
North Carolina Department of Transportation
Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis System
Intersection Analysis Report
Hourly Summary
Number of
Crashes
Hour
Percent
of Total
0000-0059
0
0.00
0100-0159
0
0.00
0200-0259
0
0.00
0300-0359
0
0.00
0400-0459
0
0.00
0500-0559
0
0.00
0600-0659
0
0.00
0700-0759
1
14.29
0800-0859
0
0.00
0900-0959
0
0.00
1000-1059
2
28.57
1100-1159
0
0.00
1200-1259
1
14.29
1300-1359
0
0.00
1400-1459
2
28.57
1500-1559
0
0.00
1600-1659
0
0.00
1700-1759
0
0.00
1800-1859
1
14.29
1900-1959
0
0.00
2000-2059
0
0.00
2100-2159
0
0.00
2200-2259
0
0.00
2300-2359
0
0.00
01/30/2020
All data presented in this report comes explicitly from the Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis
System based upon various input criteria provided by the report's creator. The onus is strictly upon the user of this
report to exercise due diligence in interpreting and further representing this data.
-6-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 125 of 140
North Carolina Department of Transportation
Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis System
Intersection Analysis Report
Light and Road Conditions Summary
Condition
Dry
Wet
Other
Total
Day
5
1
0
6
Dark
0
0
0
0
Other
1
0
0
1
Total
6
1
0
7
Vehicle Type Summary
Number
Involved
Percent
of Total
Vehicle Type
PASSENGER CAR
12
80.00
PICKUP
1
6.67
SPORT UTILITY
2
13.33
01/30/2020
All data presented in this report comes explicitly from the Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis
System based upon various input criteria provided by the report's creator. The onus is strictly upon the user of this
report to exercise due diligence in interpreting and further representing this data.
-7-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 126 of 140
North Carolina Department of Transportation
Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis System
Intersection Analysis Report
Accident Totals
Yearly Totals Summary
Year
Total
Accidents
Fatal
Accidents
Injury
Accidents
Property Damage
Only Accidents
2015
1
0
1
0
2016
3
0
1
2
2017
0
0
0
0
2018
0
0
0
0
2019
3
0
1
2
Total
7
0
3
4
Injury Totals
Year
Fatal Injuries
Class A, B,
or C Injuries
2015
0
1
2016
0
1
2017
0
0
2018
0
0
2019
0
2
Total
0
4
Miscellaneous Totals
Year
Property Damage
EPDO Index
8.40
2015
1000
$
10.40
2016
7250
$
0.00
2017
0
$
0.00
2018
0
$
10.40
2019
28500
$
29.20
Total
36750
$
Type of Accident Totals
Year
Left Turn
Right Turn
Rear End
Run Off Road &
Fixed Object
Side Swipe
Other
Angle
2015
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
2016
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
2017
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2018
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2019
2
0
0
0
0
0
1
01/30/2020
All data presented in this report comes explicitly from the Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis
System based upon various input criteria provided by the report's creator. The onus is strictly upon the user of this
report to exercise due diligence in interpreting and further representing this data.
-8-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 127 of 140
North Carolina Department of Transportation
Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis System
Intersection Analysis Report
Year
Left Turn
Right Turn
Rear End
Run Off Road &
Fixed Object
Side Swipe
Other
Angle
Total
3
0
0
0
0
0
4
01/30/2020
All data presented in this report comes explicitly from the Traffic Engineering Accident Analysis
System based upon various input criteria provided by the report's creator. The onus is strictly upon the user of this
report to exercise due diligence in interpreting and further representing this data.
-9-
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 128 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 129 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 130 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 131 of 140
Left View
Remove/relocate 
3 panels of fencing and
small volunteer pine trees.
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 132 of 140
Right View
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 133 of 140
1
Lauren Long
From:
James Michel
Sent:
Monday, May 11, 2020 9:47 AM
To:
BJ Grieve; Lauren Long; Cindy Williams
Subject:
FW: CU-03-19 Mid South Conditional Use Permit
Attachments:
CU-03-19 PB PHN - Agency Referrals.pdf
Good morning to all of the wonderful planning staff involved in this project. Below are Public Works Comments on the 
submitted CUP. 
1. In accordance with Section 4.15.8 Fire Hydrants (F) Water lines that serve hydrants shall be at least six (6) inch 
lines and unless no other practicable alternative is available, no such lines shall be dead‐end lines. The purpose 
of the looping requirement is to ensure redundancy in providing drinking water to the Town’s customers, 
redundancy in firefighting capability, and provide a means for constant water turnover to prevent stagnation of 
the water in the lines.  The proposed layout shown in the Phase 1 Plat is not compliant with this requirement. 
The developer will need to coordinate with Public Works staff during the site plan review process to provide an 
acceptable means of looping to the dead end line at the Windsong Drive intersection. 
2. In accordance with Section 4.14.3 Storm Water Management (3) The post‐development runoff rate shall be 
equal to or less than the pre‐development rate from the design storm or a ten (10) year storm event. The intent 
of this section, as described in the UDO, “All Developments shall be constructed and maintained so that adjacent 
properties are not unreasonably burdened with surface waters as a result of such Developments”. The 
developer will need to work with the Town Engineer during the site plan review process to provide acceptable 
methods of stormwater control with supporting calculations for both phases of the project. 
3. The above items 1 & 2 are specifically address to items related to the Public Works review. This is not intended 
to imply that all other requirements have been met or that the developer was not planning to meet them as part 
of the engineering plan submittal, just that based on the information submitted, it is unclear how these two 
specific are going to be met. As with any site plan, the expectation is that all of the requirements described in 
the UDO will be met as part of the site design, and will be reviewed in more detail during the site plan review 
process. 
4. The TIA recommends that actions be taken to maximize sight distance. In accordance with 4.12.5 (D) “Safety. 
Access points shall be designed to provide for adequate sight distance and appropriate facilities to 
accommodate acceleration and deceleration of site traffic pursuant to section 4.11.5.” Section 4.11.5 references 
appendix C of the UDO, but Appendix C only provides the minimum sight distance required for a design speed of 
30 MPH. Knoll road uses the Town standard speed limit of 35MPH which means the design speed of the road is 
40MPH. The Engineering plans need to include improvements to the existing intersection of Knoll Road and 
Palmer to ensure that appropriate sight distance is provided for a design speed of 40MPH.  
 
 
Let me know if you have any questions. 
 
Thanks 
 
James Michel, PE, MBA 
Town of Southern Pines 
Town Engineer/Asst. Public Works Director 
140 Memorial Park Ct. 
Southern Pines, NC 28387 
(910)692‐1983 
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 134 of 140
2
From: Cindy Williams  
Sent: Thursday, April 30, 2020 4:06 PM 
To: Archie Daniel <adaniel@southernpines.net>; Cory Albers <calbers@southernpines.net>; James Michel 
<JMichel@southernpines.net>; Ken Skipper <KSkipper@southernpines.net>; Maurice Holland 
<mbholland63@gmail.com>; NCDOT <djuarezpozos@ncdot.gov>; ncsandhillsrcw@fws.gov; RLUAC 
<director@rluac.com>; Robert Reeve <Reeve@southernpines.net>; Ron Istre <RIstre@southernpines.net> 
Cc: Lauren Long <LLong@southernpines.net> 
Subject: CU‐03‐19 Mid South Conditional Use Permit 
 
Good afternoon, 
 
Please review the attached Public Hearing Notice and related site plans and respond with your 
comments at your earliest convenience. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Cindy Williams, CZO 
Planning Technician 
Town of Southern Pines 
(910) 692-4003 
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 135 of 140
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 136 of 140
1
Lauren Long
From:
NC Sandhills RCW, FW4 <ncsandhillsrcw@fws.gov>
Sent:
Thursday, May 7, 2020 8:28 AM
To:
Cindy Williams; Archie Daniel; Cory Albers; James Michel; Ken Skipper; Maurice Holland; NCDOT; NC 
Sandhills RCW, FW4; RLUAC; Robert Reeve; Ron Istre
Cc:
Lauren Long
Subject:
RE: [EXTERNAL] CU-03-19 Mid South Conditional Use Permit
Due to the proximity of known active red‐cockaded woodpecker clusters, the project proponent should have this 
property surveyed by personnel experienced in management and monitoring of the species prior to the removal of any 
mature pine trees. Further guidance can be found at  www.fws.gov/ncsandhills/pine_tree_removal.html .  The results of 
this survey should be sent to the US Fish and Wildlife Service office located in Southern Pines, NC for review. 
 
Susan Ladd Miller 
Fish and Wildlife Biologist 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
P.O. Box 119 
Southern Pines, NC  28388 
910‐695‐3323 x 10 (office) 
910‐639‐4547 (mobile) 
susan_miller@fws.gov 
 
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's mission is, working with others, to conserve, protect and enhance fish, wildlife, and plants and their habitats for the continuing 
benefit of the American people. 
 
NOTE: This email correspondence and any attachments to and from this sender is subject to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and may be disclosed to third parties. 
 
From: Cindy Williams <CWilliams@southernpines.net>  
Sent: Thursday, April 30, 2020 4:06 PM 
To: Archie Daniel <adaniel@southernpines.net>; Cory Albers <calbers@southernpines.net>; James Michel 
<JMichel@southernpines.net>; Ken Skipper <KSkipper@southernpines.net>; Maurice Holland 
<mbholland63@gmail.com>; NCDOT <djuarezpozos@ncdot.gov>; NC Sandhills RCW, FW4 <ncsandhillsrcw@fws.gov>; 
RLUAC <director@rluac.com>; Robert Reeve <Reeve@southernpines.net>; Ron Istre <RIstre@southernpines.net> 
Cc: Lauren Long <LLong@southernpines.net> 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] CU‐03‐19 Mid South Conditional Use Permit 
 
Good afternoon, 
 
Please review the attached Public Hearing Notice and related site plans and respond with your 
comments at your earliest convenience. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Cindy Williams, CZO 
Planning Technician 
Town of Southern Pines 
(910) 692-4003 
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 137 of 140
2
 
BJ Grieve, AICP®, CFM®, CZO 
Planning Director 
Town of Southern Pines 
180 SW Broad Street 
Southern Pines, NC 28387 
Office: (910)692-4003 
http://www.southernpines.net/ 
 
 
From: bkoontz@koontzjones.com <bkoontz@koontzjones.com>  
Sent: Friday, March 20, 2020 3:22 PM 
To: BJ Grieve <BJGrieve@southernpines.net> 
Cc: 'John May' <jmay@rmrattorneys.com>; chall@koontzjones.com; 'Bob Levy' <boblevy@talamorefamily.com>; Cindy 
Williams <CWilliams@southernpines.net>; Chris Kennedy <Kennedy@southernpines.net>; Reagan Parsons 
<Parsons@southernpines.net>; 'Lee Humphrey' <lee@doubledeng.com> 
Subject: RE: Midsouth East End Completeness Review 
 
BJ, 
 
Attached please find the requested information for the Mid‐South CUP Amendment.  All items requested are attached 
or explanations to the requested items shown in red below except the TIA, which will be attached in a subsequent email 
due to file size.  Revised CUP plans and the TIA with associated documents are included.  Please let me know if you have 
any questions related to the submission. 
 
Thanks, 
Bob 
Bob Koontz, PLA 
KOONTZJONESDesign 
                              LAND PLANNING I LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE 
150 SOUTH PAGE STREET | SOUTHERN PINES, NC 28387 | P: 910-639-4058 
 
  
From: BJ Grieve  
Sent: Monday, November 25, 2019 1:20 PM 
To: 'John May' <jmay@rmrattorneys.com>; 'bkoontz@koontzjones.com' <bkoontz@koontzjones.com>; 
'chall@koontzjones.com' <chall@koontzjones.com>; 'Bob Levy' <boblevy@talamorefamily.com> 
Cc: Cindy Williams <CWilliams@southernpines.net>; Chris Kennedy <Kennedy@southernpines.net>; Reagan Parsons 
<Parsons@southernpines.net> 
Subject: RE: Midsouth East End Completeness Review 
Importance: High 
  
Good afternoon Messrs. Levy, May, Koontz & Hall,  
  
Our office has received and reviewed your November 22, 2019 submittal containing two (2) items to address 
deficiencies in your November 12, 2019 application for a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) and Major Subdivision 
Preliminary Plat for “Midsouth – East End.” You submitted: 
  
1. Revised Major Subdivision Preliminary Plats 
2. Draft CC&Rs that will be used for Midsouth East End Phases 1 and 2. 
  
Pursuant to UDO §2.20.5(E) & 2.21.5(A) and the applicable checklists contained in Appendix A of the Town of 
Southern Pines Unified Development Ordinance (UDO), we have reviewed your submittal for completeness. At 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 138 of 140
3
this time, the Conditional Use Permit application is complete, but the Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat 
application remains incomplete. 
  
The Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat application is missing the following items: 
  
1. Evidence that “Crenshaw Court” is a street name that may be used. (per Appendix A, Preliminary Plat 
Checklist)  This name has been modified to Ambassador Court and submitted to Moore County for 
approval.  This name does not appear in Moore County’s list of used names and is unique.  We 
anticipate approval of this name. 
2. Phasing Schedule addressing requirements found in both Appendix A, Preliminary Plat Checklist and 
UDO §2.9. (per Appendix A, Preliminary Plat Checklist)  Phase 1 will all be constructed at one 
time.  Phase 2 is along an existing roadway and the lots will simply be subdivided at one time upon 
approval of the CUP. The only construction required for Phase 2 is re-routing of some storm drainage. 
3. Drainage Concept Plan for Phase 2 (stormwater concept is shown for Phase 1, stormwater management 
for Phase 2 is unclear). (per Appendix A, Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat Checklist)  On the 
Drainage Concept Plan for Phase 2, the existing roadway and storm drainage is existing in the roadway. 
However, all of the lots fall away from the road and all run off and will sheet flow across the lots and 
infiltrate into the ground (what does not infiltrate will run into the beaver pond at the back of the lots 
and off the property as it currently does)  
4. TIA or, if no more than 300 trips through one ingress/egress, a TDA. Or written waiver of TIA/TDA 
requirements per UDO §4.12.3. (per Appendix A, Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat Checklist and 
UDO §4.12.2)  The TIA will be sent in a subsequent email.  Included in this email is a site distance study 
of the existing entrance and a photos showing views of each directions view leaving Palmer Drive.  2 
panels of fencing shown on the “Left View” image will be removed to increase visibility at the 
entrance.  No improvements are necessary for the “Right View”.   
  
Pursuant to UDO §2.6.1 and §2.20.5(E), the incomplete application will not be forwarded to the Planning 
Board for review on the December 19, 2019. In order to proceed with review and be placed on the January 23, 
2020 Planning Board agenda, the materials listed above to address deficiencies in the Major Subdivision 
Preliminary Plat application must be submitted by 5:00 pm on Monday, December 9, 2019 in order to 
continue processing for the January 23, 2019 Planning Board agenda. 
  
Thanks, 
  
BJ Grieve, AICP®, CFM®, CZO 
Planning Director 
Town of Southern Pines 
180 SW Broad Street 
Southern Pines, NC 28387 
Office: (910)692-4003 
http://www.southernpines.net/ 
  
  
From: BJ Grieve  
Sent: Tuesday, November 19, 2019 11:21 AM 
To: 'John May' <jmay@rmrattorneys.com>; 'bkoontz@koontzjones.com' <bkoontz@koontzjones.com>; 
'chall@koontzjones.com' <chall@koontzjones.com>; 'Bob Levy' <boblevy@talamorefamily.com> 
Cc: Cindy Williams <CWilliams@southernpines.net>; Chris Kennedy <Kennedy@southernpines.net>; Reagan Parsons 
<Parsons@southernpines.net> 
Subject: Midsouth East End Completeness Review 
  
Good afternoon Messrs. Levy, May, Koontz & Hall,  
  
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 139 of 140
4
Our office has received and reviewed your November 12, 2019 application for a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) 
and Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat for “Midsouth – East End.” The application contains a total of 58 lots 
in two phases of development. 
  
Pursuant to UDO §2.20.5(E) & 2.21.5(A) and the applicable checklists contained in Appendix A of the Town of 
Southern Pines Unified Development Ordinance (UDO), we have reviewed your applications for completeness. 
At this time, the applications are incomplete. 
  
The Conditional Use Permit application is missing the following items: 
  
1. Preliminary Plat labelled as such (presently labelled “Site Plan”) and containing all the requirements 
found in Appendix A for a Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat (see #1 in deficiency list below). 
  
The Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat application is missing the following items: 
  
1. Preliminary Plat containing the following: 
a. Add proper label of “Preliminary Plat – Phase 1” and “Preliminary Plat – Phase 2,” rather than 
“Site Plan.” (per Appendix A, Preliminary Plat Checklist) 
b. Add property lines of adjacent properties w/in 100’ of perimeter of Phase 1 of subdivision (per 
Appendix A, Preliminary Plat Checklist) 
c. Correct symbols used for existing vs. proposed water and sewer on Phase 2. Symbols are not 
consistent with legend (per Appendix A, Preliminary Plat Checklist) 
d. Add topographic contour lines (per Appendix A, Preliminary Plat Checklist) 
2. Evidence that “Crenshaw Court” is a street name that may be used. (per Appendix A, Preliminary Plat 
Checklist) 
3. Phasing Schedule addressing requirements found in both Appendix A, Preliminary Plat Checklist and 
UDO §2.9. (per Appendix A, Preliminary Plat Checklist) 
4. Draft copy of CC&Rs demonstrating how private facilities/common areas will be maintained. (per 
Appendix A, Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat Checklist) 
5. Drainage Concept Plan for Phase 2 (stormwater concept is shown for Phase 1). (per Appendix A, Major 
Subdivision Preliminary Plat Checklist) 
6. TIA or, if no more than 300 trips through one ingress/egress, a TDA. (per Appendix A, Major 
Subdivision Preliminary Plat Checklist and UDO §4.12.2) 
  
The CUP and Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat applications must be complete for review by 5:00 pm on 
Friday, November 22, 2019 in order to continue processing for the December 19, 2019 Planning Board 
agenda. 
  
Thanks, 
  
BJ Grieve, AICP®, CFM®, CZO 
Planning Director 
Town of Southern Pines 
180 SW Broad Street 
Southern Pines, NC 28387 
Office: (910)692-4003 
http://www.southernpines.net/ 
  
On the Drainage Concept Plan for Phase 2, the existing roadway and storm drainage is existing in the roadway. However, 
all of the lots fall away from the road and all run off will sheet flow down across the lots and infiltrate into the ground 
(what does not will run into the beaver pond at the back of the lots and mostly off the property)  
 
CU-03-19 & S-48-19 Midsouth East End
June 2020 Town Council
Page 140 of 140
Agenda Item 
To: 
Reagan Parsons, Town Manager 
Via: 
BJ Grieve, Planning Director 
From: 
Suzy Russell, Planner II 
Subject: 
Z-02-20:  Request to rezone a 13.36 acre parcel and 22.07
acre  parcel located at 200 Meyer Farm Drive from RS-3
(Residential Single-Family) to RM-2 (Residential Mixed-
Housing); Applicant: Mr. Earl Ellis of Colony 9, LLC
Date: 
June 9, 2020 
I.
SUMMARY OF APPLICATION REQUEST:
Mr. Earl Ellis of Colony 9, LLC requests to rezone a 13.36 acre parcel and 22.07 acre
parcel located within Forest Creek at 200 Meyer Farm Drive from RS-3 (Residential
Single-Family) to RM-2 (Residential Mixed-Housing); The subject property is identified
as PIN: 857300393172 (PARID: 00037691).  Per the Moore County tax records, the
property owner is listed as Colony 9, LLC.
II.
PLANNING BOARD ACTION:
At the May 21, 2020 Regular Meeting of the Planning Board, the Planning Board held a
legislative hearing and heard from staff as well as those in attendance regarding application
Z-02-20. Planning staff entered the staff report Z-02-20 into the record as Exhibit A and
presented a review of the Zoning Map Amendment application. Planning staff discussed
consistency with the Comprehensive Long Range Plan (CLRP).
Following staff’s presentation, the applicant’s authorized agent Robert Koontz with 
KoontzJones Design presented a PowerPoint presentation (Exhibit B) of the proposed 
Zoning Map Amendment.  Mr. Koontz answered a variety of questions from the Public 
concerning POA guidelines for Architectural Review, expected expansion on the west side 
of Meyer Farm Drive, and if the general public were informed about this.  There was no 
testimony provided by members of the public.  
After hearing staff and the applicant speak, the Chairman closed the public comment 
portion of the hearing and proceeded with Board Discussion. Ms. Diane Westbrook made 
a motion to recommend approval of the Zoning Amendment Z-02-20. The motion was 
seconded by Mr. Lemuel Dowdy. The motion passed unanimously (Cooper Carter was 
absent) (6-0). The plan consistency statement adopted by the Planning Board may be found 
attached to this staff report. 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 1 of 43
III. 
PROJECT INFORMATION: 
 
A. Physical Address: 
200 Meyer Farm Drive 
Pinehurst, NC 28374 
 
B. Owner / Applicant: 
Colony 9, LLC 
Mr. Earl Ellis 
19 Cumberland Drive 
Pinehurst, NC 28374 
 
C. Authorized Agent: 
Mr. Bob Koontz 
Koontz Jones Design, PLLC 
150 S Page Street 
Southern Pines, NC 28387 
 
D. Current Zoning: 
The area requested to be rezoned is presently zoned RS-3 Residential Single-Family 
(see Figure 1 below). The RS-3 zoning district has the following purpose (UDO 
§3.5.5): 
 
The RS-3 district is designed to allow primarily very low density single-family 
residential land uses. The regulations of this district are intended to:  
1) Preserve existing Single-Family residential neighborhoods that have 
developed at a low-density; and  
2) Encourage new residential Development that is compatible with that in the 
existing neighborhoods. 
 
Land uses that are allowed by-right in the RS-3 zoning district are much lower in 
intensity of dwelling units than RM-2 zoning districts.  Multi-Family condominium 
land use, LBCS Code 1153 is allowed in RM-2 but is not allowed in RS-3.   LBCS 
Code 1153 is described as three or more dwelling units that are individually owned 
and common elements owned by the unit owners as tenants in-common.  RM-2 
zoning districts establish increases in intensity of dwelling units.  Private golf 
course land use is allowed in RS-3 zoning districts but are not allowed in RM-2 
zoning districts.    
 
E. Current Comprehensive Long-Range Plan Designation: 
 
The subject property is identified as Residential/Golf in the Future Land Use Plan 
2016 (see Figure 6).  Per the CLRP, the Residential/Golf designation applies to 
areas that include public or private golf courses and residences.  This category may 
accommodate single family or attached dwellings at a variety of densities, 
recreational facilities in addition to the golf course, limited guest accommodations, 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 2 of 43
and limited commercial services intended to serve residents of and visitors to the 
development.   
 
The future land use map is a graphic expression of the CLRP’s land-use policy.  
Provided to guide decisions on land use the map reflects both current uses- 
categorized more generally than with the Town’s zoning map – as well as uses the 
Town sees as conducive to the community’s long-range goals.  As opportunity and 
interest emerge for changes in land use and development regulation, the map should 
be referenced to ensure those changes meet overall planning goals.  In contrast to 
the Town’s parcel-specific zoning map adopted as part of the Town’s Unified 
Development Ordinance, the future land use map is presented with soft-edged use 
boundaries, which are intended to identify future land use designations but at the 
same time reflect the fact that as policy, specific boundaries are less critical than 
the map’s overall intent, including development type, intensities and their relative 
arrangement.   
 
The proposed amendment appears to be generally consistent with both the CLRP 
Future Land Use Map as well as with many Goals and Policies in the CLRP.  
Specifically Policy 12, stating that new housing choices foster the provision of a 
mix of housing that meets the financial and physical needs of existing and future 
residents by encouraging development of a variety of housing types in new 
residential areas and promoting compatible infill in existing neighborhoods.   
 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 3 of 43
Figure 1:  Vicinity & Current Zoning Map (Subject Property Outlined in Yellow)
 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 4 of 43
Figure 2:  Future Land Use 2016 Map: 
 
 
 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 5 of 43
F. Proposed Zoning: 
The applicant is requesting to zone the subject property RM-2 Residential Mixed-
Housing. The RM-2 zoning district has the following purpose (UDO §3.5.7): 
 
“The RM-2 district is established as a district in which to allow primarily Single-
Family and Multi-Family Residences at a moderate-density (approximately 5-7 
Dwelling Units per acre) in areas served by adequate public water and sewer 
systems. The regulations of this district are intended to:  
(1) Encourage Single-Family and Multi-Family Residences; and  
(2) Encourage new residential Development that is compatible with that in the 
existing neighborhoods. 
 
IV. 
STAFF REVIEW 
 
A. Review Process: 
Amendments to the Town of Southern Pines Official Zoning Map are reviewed 
pursuant to UDO §2.17.  
 
B. Application Review Dates: 
• Application Submitted: April 13, 2020 
• Application Complete: April 20, 2020 
• Notice of Public Planning Board Hearing: 
o Posted On-site: May 06, 2020 
o Mailed: May 08, 2020 
o Internet: May 08, 2020 
• Planning Board Agenda Meeting: Not held. 
• Planning Board Public Hearing: May 21, 2020 
• Notice of Public Town Council Hearing: 
o Posted On-site: Remained from May 06, 2020 
o Mailed: May 27, 2020 
o Internet: June 3, 2020 
• Town Council Agenda Meeting: June 03, 2020 
• Town Council Public Hearing: June 09, 2020  
 
C. Criteria For Review: 
When reviewing an application for zoning, the hearing bodies shall consider and be 
guided by the following criteria, as set forth in UDO §2.17.9: 
1. Consistency. Rezoning shall be consistent with the adopted Comprehensive 
Plan 
2. Adverse Impacts on Neighboring Lands. The Hearing Body shall consider 
the nature and degree of an adverse impact upon neighboring lands. Lots 
shall not be rezoned in a way that is substantially inconsistent with the uses 
of the surrounding area, whether more or less restrictive. The Town finds 
and determines that vast acreages of single-use zoning produces uniformity 
with adverse consequences, such as traffic congestion, air pollution, and 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 6 of 43
social alienation. Accordingly, rezoning may promote mixed uses subject to 
a high degree of design control.  
3. Suitability as Presently Zoned. The Hearing Body shall consider the 
suitability or unsuitability of the Tract for its use as presently zoned. This 
factor, like the others, should be weighed in relation to the other standards, 
and instances can exist in which the land may be rezoned to meet public 
need, to reflect substantially changed conditions in the neighborhood, or to 
effectuate important goals, objectives and policies of the Comprehensive 
Plan or UDO.  
4. Health, Safety, and Welfare. The amending ordinance must bear a 
substantial relationship to the public health, safety or general welfare, or 
protect and preserve historical and cultural places and areas. The rezoning 
may be justified, however, if a substantial public need or purpose exists, 
even if the private owner of the Tract will also benefit.  
5. Public Policy. Certain public policies in favor of the rezoning may be 
considered. Examples include a need for affordable housing, economic 
Development, mixed-use Development, or sustainable environmental 
features, which are consistent with neighborhood, area, or specific plans.  
6. Size of Tract. The Hearing Body shall consider the size, shape, and 
characteristics of the Tract in relation to the affected neighboring lands. 
Amendatory ordinances shall not rezone a single Lot when there have been 
no intervening changes or other saving characteristics. Proof that a small 
tract is unsuitable for use as zoned, or that there have been substantial 
changes in the immediate area, may justify ordinance rezoning.  
7. Other Factors. The Hearing Body may consider any other factors relevant 
to a rezoning application under state law. 
8. Applicant Representations. Except for rezoning requests submitted in 
accordance with the provisions herein for conditional use district 
rezonings, the Hearing Body shall not consider any representations made 
by the petitioner that, if the change is granted, the rezoned property will be 
used for only one of the possible range of uses permitted in the requested 
classification. Rather, the Hearing Body shall consider whether the entire 
range of permitted uses in the requested classification is more appropriate 
than the range of uses in the existing classification. 
 
D. Staff Comments: 
 
• The subject property is presently developed as a private golf course gated 
community with 704 single family residential lots that have been recorded. 
In 1999 a Conditional Use Permit CU-04-99 for the RS-3 zoning district 
was approved and permitted up to a total of 750 residential single-family 
lots to be developed on the property along with the 2 golf courses and 
amenity areas.   
 
• In December of 2019, planning staff met with the applicant and other 
representatives of the applicant to discuss rezoning the subject property. 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 7 of 43
The applicant was informed of the rezoning process, the criteria that should 
be met to rezone a property and the timeline for Town review of a rezoning 
request.  
 
• Section 1 and Section 20 of Forest Creek (please see Figure 3 below) are 
located adjacent to the recreational amenities for Forest Creek.  These 
parcels of land are not adjacent to outside lying properties but are central to 
the Forest Creek Development and are bordered by existing private streets.  
The utility infrastructure is existing and can adequately serve the 
development.     
 
 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 8 of 43
Figure 3:  Section 1(indicated by the blue area) and Section 20 (indicated by the green area): 
 
 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 9 of 43
 
E. Outside Agency Comments: 
• A request for comment was emailed to the Regional Land Use Advisory 
Commission (RLUAC), the North Carolina Department of Transportation 
(NCDOT), U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USF&WS) and members of the 
Town of Southern Pines Technical Review Committee (TRC) on May 07, 
2020.  
o As of the completion of this staff report no agency comments were 
received. 
 
V. 
ATTACHMENTS: 
1. Zoning Map Amendment Application 
2. Exhibit A: Draft Plan Consistency Statement 
3. Applicants Letters Requesting Rezoning 
4. Applicant’s Narrative  
5. Applicant’s Rezoning Justification 
6. Current Survey  
7. Property Deed with Metes and Bounds Description 
 
Additional documents related to this application including (but not limited to), email 
correspondence, meeting minutes and adjacent property notification records are on file 
in the Town of Southern Pines Planning Office and available for public inspections 
during normal business hours. 
 
 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 10 of 43
VI. 
TOWN COUNCIL ACTION: 
 
The Town Council shall hold a public hearing. After closing the public hearing, the 
Town Council shall consider the information gathered at the public hearing in light 
of the eight (8) criteria for zoning map amendments. The Council may choose to adopt 
findings of fact and conclusions based on the eight (8) criteria for zoning map 
amendments, but an adoption of findings and conclusions is not required.  
 
Afterwards, the Town Council shall vote on whether to approve or deny the proposed 
zoning amendment. As part of any approval or denial, in accordance with North 
Carolina law, the Town Council shall adopt a statement regarding consistency of the 
proposed amendment with the adopted Comprehensive Long Range Plan. The Town 
Council may make the following motion, or any alternative they wish: 
 
I move that after considering the criteria for a zoning map amendment found in UDO 
§2.17.9, the Town Council finds that: 
 
1. 
The requested Zoning Map Amendment is consistent with the 
Comprehensive Long Range Plan and the Town Council adopts the 
Resolution that is included as Attachment “A” in the staff memorandum for 
Z-02-20;  
 
2. 
The requested Zoning Map Amendment is consistent with the 
Comprehensive Long Range Plan and the Town Council adopts the 
Resolution that is included as Attachment “A” in the staff memorandum for 
Z-02-20 with the following edits or comments to Attachment “A”… 
 
3. 
The requested Zoning Map Amendment is not consistent with the 
Comprehensive Long Range Plan and the Town Council adopts the 
Resolution that is included as Attachment “A” in the staff memorandum for 
Z-02-20 with the following edits or comments to Attachment “A”… 
 
And, therefore, I move to:  
 
1. 
Approve Z-02-20;  
 
2. 
Approve Z-02-20 with the following conditions;  
 
3. 
Deny Z-02-20; 
 
4. 
(Take other action…) 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 11 of 43
    
 
  
 
 
REQUIRED APPLICATION MATERIALS: 
____ Application fee in the amount of $1,500.00. 
____ Completed Application for a Zoning Map Amendment (Rezoning) signed by the applicant. Please 
do not leave anything blank and make sure that all of the information provided is correct. 
____ Appointment of Agent, if applicable, signed by the property owner(s) and the agent. 
____ Deed copy to provide proof of ownership and property boundaries. 
____ Reasons for proposed amendment:  Explain the need for the proposed changes to the zoning map. 
Please provide additional text and/or maps to demonstrate consistency with the approval criteria 
listed in UDO §2.17.9 Criteria for Zoning Map Amendments.  The list of criteria is attached. 
____ Survey of the subject property. 
____ Written metes and bounds description of the subject property. 
____ Site plan, if applicable 
____ Electronic copy (PDF) of all application materials submitted to plan@southernpines.net.   
PLEASE SUBMIT ONLY ONE (1) COMPLETE SET OF ALL MATERIALS. 
 
REVIEW AND APPROVAL: 
1. Staff review:  Planning staff will review the application and notify the applicant if additional 
materials are needed.  
2. Public hearings:  The applicant is expected to attend a public hearing on the application before the 
Planning Board followed by a public hearing before the Town Council the following month.  (Please 
refer to the Application Processing Timeline to determine the hearing dates.)  The Planning Board 
will recommend approval, conditional approval or denial to the Town Council.  The Town Council 
will consider that recommendation, as well as evidence and testimony presented, and approve, 
conditionally approve or deny the rezoning request. 
3. Approval: The approval of an amendment to the UDO text or Zoning Map does not authorize the 
use, occupancy, or development of property until the applicant receives necessary development 
approvals, such as subdivision, site plan and building permits.  (UDO §2.17.12) 
 
PLANNING DEPARTMENT 
TOWN OF SOUTHERN PINES 
180 SW BROAD STREET 
SOUTHERN PINES, NORTH CAROLINA 28387 
plan@southernpines.net      (910) 692-4003     www.southernpines.net     
Zoning Map Amendment 
(Rezoning) 
  
 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 12 of 43
    
        
           
 
 
 
                                    
 
 
 
 
 
Project Information: 
 
Street Address: ______________________________________________________________________________ 
 
PIN: _____________________________________   Parcel ID: _________________________________________ 
 
Site Size:_________________________________    Zoning: ___________________________________________ 
 
 
Applicant: 
 
Name(s): ____________________________________________________________________________________    
 
Email: _______________________________________       Phone: ______________________________________     
 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________________________________________ 
 
 
Authorized Agent, if different from Applicant: 
 
Name(s): ____________________________________________________________________________________    
 
Email: _______________________________________       Phone: ______________________________________     
 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________________________________________ 
 
 
Legal Property Owner(s), if different from Applicant: 
 
Name(s): ____________________________________________________________________________________    
 
Email: _______________________________________       Phone: ______________________________________     
 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________________________________________ 
 
Zoning Map Amendment 
Application 
 
Fee: $1,500.00                  Date Received:  __________          Case No.: Z-____-____ 
 
200 Meyer Farm Dr
857300393172
00037691
35.43 acres
RS-3
eee711@gmail.com
910-684-8487
Robert Koontz c/o Koontz Jones Design
bkoontz@koontzjones.con
150 S Page St, Southern Pines, NC 28387
James J Rehak JR, and Mary Kelly Rehak Trustee
71 The Commom, Williamsville, NY 14221
Colony 9, LLC c/o Earl Ellis
(910) 638-0717
19 Cumberland Drive,  Pinehurst, NC  28374
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 13 of 43
TO THE TOWN OF SOUTHERN PINES PLANNING BOARD AND TOWN COUNCIL: 
I, the undersigned, do hereby make application to and petition the Planning Board and Town Council to 
grant a zoning map amendment as required by the Town of Southern Pines Zoning Ordinance. The 
following information is submitted in support of this application: 
The property which is the subject of this application is located   on   the ___________ side   of 
________________   (St./Ave.), between _________________ (St./Ave.)   and  _________________ 
(St./Ave.).  The property has a frontage of ___________ feet and a depth of _____________ feet. 
The zoning map amendment sought is based upon Section(s) _________ of the Town of Southern Pines  
Unified  Development  Ordinance.    The proposed use of the property is as follows: 
 
 
ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS: 
Please list all properties that are that are within two hundred (200) feet of the outermost boundaries of 
the subject property.  Attach additional pages if needed.  No fewer than ten (10) property owners shall be 
notified by mail.   
 
1. Adjacent property: 
  ____________________________________        Parcel ID #:  _________________ 
Property owner(s): 
  __________________________________________________________________ 
Mailing address:   
  __________________________________________________________________ 
2. Adjacent property: 
  ____________________________________        Parcel ID #:  _________________ 
Property owner(s): 
  __________________________________________________________________ 
Mailing address:   
  __________________________________________________________________ 
3. Adjacent property: 
  ____________________________________        Parcel ID #:  _________________ 
Property owner(s): 
  __________________________________________________________________ 
Mailing address:   
  __________________________________________________________________ 
4. Adjacent property: 
  ____________________________________        Parcel ID #:  _________________ 
Property owner(s): 
  __________________________________________________________________ 
Mailing address:   
  __________________________________________________________________ 
5. Adjacent property: 
  ____________________________________        Parcel ID #:  _________________ 
Property owner(s): 
  __________________________________________________________________ 
Mailing address:   
  __________________________________________________________________ 
6. Adjacent property: 
  ____________________________________        Parcel ID #:  _________________ 
Property owner(s): 
  __________________________________________________________________ 
Mailing address:   
  __________________________________________________________________ 
East
Meyer Farm Dr
Ridgeland St
Wellington Dr
+/- 2700
+/- 1300
2.17
Multifamily
See attached list
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 14 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 15 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 16 of 43
UDO §2.17.9. Criteria for Zoning Map Amendments 
In its review of an application for a zoning map amendment, the Hearing Bodies shall consider the 
following criteria.  No single factor is controlling; instead each must be weighed in relation to the other 
standards. 
(A) Consistency.  Rezoning shall be consistent with the adopted Comprehensive Plan.
(B) Adverse Impacts on Neighboring Lands.  The Hearing Body shall consider the nature and degree of
an adverse impact upon neighboring lands.  Lots shall not be rezoned in a way that is substantially
inconsistent with the uses of the surrounding area, whether more or less restrictive.  The Town
finds and determines that vast acreages of single-use zoning produces uniformity with adverse
consequences, such as traffic congestion, air pollution, and social alienation.  Accordingly, rezonings
may promote mixed uses subject to a high degree of design control.
(C) Suitability as Presently Zoned.  The Hearing Body shall consider the suitability or unsuitability of
the Tract for its use as presently zoned.  This factor, like the others, should be weighed in relation
to the other standards, and instances can exist in which the land may be rezoned to meet public
need, to reflect substantially changed conditions in the neighborhood, or to effectuate important
goals, objectives and policies of the Comprehensive Plan or UDO.
(D) Health, Safety, and Welfare.  The amending ordinance must bear a substantial relationship to the
public health, safety or general welfare, or protect and preserve historical and cultural places and
areas.  The rezoning may be justified, however, if a substantial public need or purpose exists, even
if the private owner of the Tract will also benefit.
(E) Public Policy.  Certain public policies in favor of the rezoning may be considered.  Examples include
a need for affordable housing, economic Development, mixed-use Development, or sustainable
environmental features, which are consistent with neighborhood, area, or specific plans.
(F) Size of Tract.  The Hearing Body shall consider the size, shape, and characteristics of the Tract in
relation to the affected neighboring lands.  Amendatory ordinances shall not rezone a single Lot
when there have been no intervening changes or other saving characteristics.  Proof that a small
Tract is unsuitable for use as zoned, or that there have been substantial changes in the immediate
area, may justify ordinance rezoning.
(G) Other Factors.  The Hearing Body may consider any other factors relevant to the rezoning
application under state law.
Applicant Representations.  Except for rezoning requests submitted in accordance with the provisions 
herein for conditional use district rezonings, the Hearing Body shall not consider any representations 
made by the petitioner that, if the change is granted, the rezoned property will be used for only one of 
the possible range of uses permitted in the requested classification.  Rather, the Hearing Body shall 
consider whether the entire range of permitted uses in the requested classification is more appropriate 
than the range of uses in the existing classification. 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 17 of 43
TOWN COUNCIL  
RESOLUTION TO ADOPT A STATEMENT OF CONSISTENCY 
FOR ZONING MAP AMENDMENT APPLICATION  
Z-02-20
WHEREAS, Section 160A-383 of the North Carolina General Statutes specifies that the 
governing board shall, with any ordinance amendment or zoning map amendment decision, 
approve a statement describing whether the action of the governing board is consistent with the 
adopted comprehensive plan.  
WHEREAS, Section 160A-383 of the North Carolina General Statutes specifies that zoning 
regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive plan and prior to adopting or 
rejecting any zoning amendment, the governing board shall adopt one of the following statements, 
which shall not be subject to judicial review:  
(1) A statement approving the zoning amendment and describing its consistency with
an adopted comprehensive plan and explaining why the action taken is reasonable
and in the public interest.
(2) A statement rejecting the zoning amendment and describing its inconsistency with
an adopted comprehensive plan and explaining why the action taken is reasonable
and in the public interest.
(3) A statement approving the zoning amendment and containing at least all of the
following:
a.
A declaration that the approval is also deemed an amendment to the
comprehensive plan. The governing board shall not require any additional
request or application for amendment to the comprehensive plan.
b. An explanation of the change in conditions the governing board took into
account in amending the zoning ordinance to meet the development needs of
the community.
c.
Why the action was reasonable and in the public interest.
WHEREAS, zoning regulations shall be designed to promote the public health, safety, and general 
welfare. The regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration, among other things, as to 
the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses, and with a view to 
conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the 
Town.  
WHEREAS, the Town Council conducted a public hearing on June 09, 2020 for consideration 
of Zoning Map Amendment application Z-02-20;  
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 18 of 43
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Town Council finds that the Zoning Map 
Amendment application Z-02-20 is reasonable, in the public interest and consistent with the Town 
of Southern Pines Comprehensive Long Range Plan (CLRP) because the proposed RM-2, 
Residential Mixed-Housing, zoning is consistent with the Future Land Use Designation of 
“Residential,” as that term is defined in Chapter 4 of the CLRP.  The proposed rezoning appears 
to be consistent with both the CLRP and Future Land Use Map as well as with many Goals and 
Policies in the CLRP.  Specifically Policy 12, stating that new housing choices foster the provision 
of a mix of housing that meets the financial and physical needs of existing and future residents by 
encouraging development of a variety of housing types in new residential areas and promoting 
compatible infill in existing neighborhoods.  The overall character of the area in which the 
applicant is requesting the RM-2 Residential Mixed Housing zoning will not be negatively 
impacted, nor will the requested zoning result in an inefficient extension of public facilities and 
services because the area is already developed and served by all required facilities. Finally, any 
future redevelopment of the subject property will be required to comply with current site and 
building design requirements, further improving the aesthetics and functionality of the site and 
mitigating potential impacts to neighboring properties and the general public.  
ADOPTED this the 9th day of June, 2020. 
_____________________________ 
Carol Haney, Mayor 
ATTEST: 
______________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith 
Town Clerk 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 19 of 43
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
March 9, 2020 
(Sent via Electronic Mail) 
 
B.J. Grieve, Planning Director 
Town of Southern Pines 
Southern Pines, NC 28387 
 
Re: Colony 9 CUP Amendment and Rezoning Applications 
 
Dear B.J.: 
 
I represent Colony 9, LLC which is the current owner of certain tracts of land commonly known as 
Sections 1 and 20 within the Forest Creek Golf Club development.  One of the requirements of Colony 9 
when submitting the CUP Amendment and the Rezoning Application to the Town of Southern Pines is to 
identify the Parcel ID number(s) for the Colony 9 property for which the CUP Amendment and the 
Rezoning Application are being made.  When researching that requirement on the Moore County Tax 
Office website, it was determined that a condominium unit located in the Forest Creek Golf Course 
Clubhouse which is owned by James J. Rehak, Jr. and his wife, Mary Kelly Rehak as Trustees for their 
respective Revocable Trusts was acquired by the Trusts by a deed recorded in Book 4931, Page 376 of the 
Moore County Registry a copy of which is attached and had as its PIN # 85730039172.  When locating 
that PIN on the Tax Office’s tax maps, that specific tax map a copy of which is attached shows the 
Rehak’s property including the entirety of the Forest Creek Golf Course Development which is obviously 
an error.   
 
I have also attached a copy of the deed by which Colony 9 acquired a substantial amount of the Forest 
Creek Golf Course Development including the above referenced Sections 1 and 20 as well as a copy of 
the tax map which shows the location of Sections 1 and 20.  Clearly, Colony 9 is the correct owner of 
Sections 1 and 20 as per the tax maps and the condominium unit owned by the Rehaks’ Trusts are located 
within the Clubhouse of the Forest Creek Golf Club and therefore, the tax map reference for PIN # 
85730039172 is in error. 
 
Should you need any additional information, please let me know 
 
ROBBINS MAY & RICH LLP 
 
John M. May 
 
John M. May 
Enclosures 
 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 20 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 21 of 43
 
 
 
                                              KOONTZJONESDesign 
                                                                                                                                                          LAND PLANNING  LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE  
 
 
 
 
 
150 PAGE STREET 
SOUTHERN PINES, NC 28387 
P: 910.639.4058 
 
FOREST CREEK SECTION 1 AND 20 
REZONING NARRATIVE 
 
The community known as Forest Creek began development in the 1990s and is a gated golf course 
community off Airport Road in Southern Pines, North Carolina.  Two golf courses, a clubhouse, amenities 
and several residential lots and homes have been developed within the property.  In 1999 a Conditional 
Use Permit (CU-04-99) for the RS-3 district was approved which permitted up to a total of 750 residential 
single-family lots to be developed on the property, along with the golf courses and amenity areas.  To 
date, 704 residential lots have been recorded within Forest Creek. 
 
This application seeks to amend the zoning for a portion of the RS-3 district to RM-2 to add multi-family 
condominium development as a potential use for the property. The ability to develop multi-family 
condominiums would only pertain to Sections 1 (+/- 13.36 acres) and 20 (+/- 22.07 acres).   
 
Sections 1 and 20 are located within Forest Creek near the clubhouse and main amenity area, just off 
Meyer Farm Drive.  Potential development of these area would allow for multi-family units or single-family 
detached lots. Sections 1 and 20 were intended to be developed as single-family detached residential 
units.  As the property has developed over the years, a demand for multi-family condominiums has 
surfaced.  The proposed modification to the zoning would allow Colony 9 the ability to offer condominium 
product to the members of the club within the Forest Creek community.  Locating the condominium units 
near the clubhouse, pool and other amenity areas would provide the owners with easy access to the club’s 
recreational features.  
 
These plans are consistent with the Comprehensive Long-Range Plan (CLRP) which designates the 
property as Residential/Golf.  Any condominium buildings would be subject to the Town’s multi-family 
guidelines as specified in the Unified Development Ordinance.  As such, the building elevations and 
materials will be subject to review by the Town Council for an Architectural Compliance Permit. 
 
Water and sewer utilities for Sections 1 and 20 are readily available and were constructed during the 
overall development of Forest Creek.  Any additional infrastructure needed to serve Sections 1 and 20 on-
site will be developed as the parcels are constructed, the cost of which will be by the developer.  Any 
additional on-site utility infrastructure will be located underground. 
 
 
 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 22 of 43
EXHIBIT A 
 
Forest Creek Section 1 and 20 
Rezoning Justification  
 
Below are listed the seven (7) criteria required to approve a Zoning Map Amendment application as described in 
Section 2.17.9 of the Town of Southern Pines Unified Development Ordinance (UDO).  Following the individual 
criteria is an explanation, indicated in red, describing how the project demonstrates compliance with each of these 
criteria. 
 
A Zoning Map Amendment is permitted only if the Applicant demonstrates that:  
 
(A) Consistency. Rezoning shall be consistent with the adopted Comprehensive Plan.  
 
The proposed zoning map amendment from RS-3 to RM-2 is consistent with the Comprehensive Long-Range Plan 
(CLRP). The property is currently designated as Residential/Golf. The ability to develop multi‐family condominiums 
would only pertain to Sections 1 (+/‐ 13.36 acres) and 20 (+/‐ 22.07 acres). 
 
The CLRP speaks to future land uses, accommodating growth and maintaining a sustainable mix of land uses, adding 
that the most successful communities and neighborhoods include a compatible, mutually supportive mix of uses in 
order to maintain vital neighborhoods with the ability to accommodate changing housing demands. Development 
of sections 1 and 20 will meet the applicable standards of the UDO. 
 
(B) Adverse Impacts on Neighboring Lands. The Hearing Body shall consider the nature and degree of an adverse 
impact upon neighboring lands. Lots shall not be rezoned in a way that is substantially inconsistent with the uses of 
the surrounding area, whether more or less restrictive. The Town finds and determines that vast acreages of single-
use zoning produces uniformity with adverse consequences, such as traffic congestion, air pollution, and social 
alienation. Accordingly, rezonings may promote mixed uses subject to a high degree of design control.  
 
Proposed development of Sections 1 and 20 will conform to the character of the neighborhood. Buildings will be 
required to meet the internal design standards of Forest Creek. Any residential lots developed in this section will be 
consistent with other lots located near sections 1 and 20. 
 
In addition to internal Forest Creek design standards, multi‐family condominiums will be subject to the Town’s multi‐
family guidelines as specified in the UDO. As such, the building elevations and materials will be subject to review by 
the Town Council for an Architectural Compliance Permit. The conditional zoning will meet the standards and is in 
character with the surrounding properties. 
 
(C) Suitability as Presently Zoned. The Hearing Body shall consider the suitability or unsuitability of the Tract for its 
use as presently zoned. This factor, like the others, should be weighed in relation to the other standards, and 
instances can exist in which the land may be rezoned to meet public need, to reflect substantially changed conditions 
in the neighborhood, or to effectuate important goals, objectives and policies of the Comprehensive Plan or UDO.  
 
As the area continues to grow, there is an increased public need for alternative housing options. The proposed zoning 
would allow Colony 9 the ability to offer additional single‐family detached lots and a condominium product to the 
members of the club within the border of the Forest Creek Golf Community. Locating the condominium units near 
the clubhouse, pool and other amenity areas would provide the owners with easy access to the club’s recreational 
features. 
 
(D) Health, Safety, and Welfare. The amending ordinance must bear a substantial relationship to the public health, 
safety or general welfare, or protect and preserve historical and cultural places and areas. The rezoning may be 
justified, however, if a substantial public need or purpose exists, even if the private owner of the Tract will also 
benefit.  
 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 23 of 43
EXHIBIT A 
 
This development will become part of the overall private Forest Creek Golf Community and subject to its standards 
and regulations. The residential neighborhood developed in sections 1 and 20 will continue the existing development 
pattern in the neighborhood and will conform to all development standards of the UDO and engineering 
requirements of the Town. As a result, the use will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, 
comfort or general welfare of the surrounding neighborhood. 
 
(E) Public Policy. Certain public policies in favor of the rezoning may be considered. Examples include a need for 
affordable housing, economic Development, mixed-use Development, or sustainable environmental features, which 
are consistent with neighborhood, area, or specific plans.  
 
The conditional zoning is compliance with the established development pattern within the existing Forest Creek Golf 
Community. This project is also consistent with the goals and objectives of the Comprehensive Long‐Range Plan and 
establishes a development pattern that is in consistent with the surrounding neighborhood. The development 
pattern also meets the land use goals defined by the CLRP by adding development where public utilities are available 
and developing infill locations, since sections 1 and 20 are located within an established community. 
 
(F) Size of Tract. The Hearing Body shall consider the size, shape, and characteristics of the Tract in relation to the 
affected neighboring lands. Amendatory ordinances shall not rezone a single Lot when there have been no 
intervening changes or other saving characteristics. Proof that a small Tract is unsuitable for use as zoned, or that 
there have been substantial changes in the immediate area, may justify ordinance rezoning.  
 
The ability to develop multi‐family condominiums would only pertain to Sections 1 (+/‐ 13.36 acres) and 20 (+/‐ 22.07 
acres) and will conform to all development standards of the UDO and engineering requirements of the Town. 
 
(G) Other Factors. The Hearing Body may consider any other factors relevant to a rezoning application under state 
law.  
 
The proposed zoning map amendment is limited to Sections 1 and 20.  
 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 24 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 25 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 26 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 27 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 28 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 29 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 30 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 31 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 32 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 33 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 34 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 35 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 36 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 37 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 38 of 43
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 39 of 43
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APRIL 13, 2020 
13.36 ACRES 
FOREST CREEK INVESTORS, LLC 
LOT NO. 1 
 
A CERTAIN TRACT OR PARCEL OF LAND LYING ON THE EAST SIDE OF  MEYER FARM DRIVE AND 
FRONTING ON THE SOUTH LINE OF FOREST CREEK DRIVE  IN THE COMMUNITY OF FOREST CREEK 
DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS; 
BEGINNING AT AN IRON STAKE IN THE SOUTH LINE OF FOREST CREEK DRIVE NEAR THE INTERSECTION 
OF FOREST CREEK DRIVE WITH MEYER FARM DRIVE, SAID BEGINNING CORNER BEING LOCATED 
S04°22’40”E 65.58 FEET FROM AN IRON STAKE IN THE NORTH LINE OF FOREST CREEK DRIVE;  RUNNING 
THENCE FROM THE BEGINNING AS THE SOUTH LINES OF FOREST CREEK DRIVE AS A CURVE TO THE LEFT 
HAVING A RADIUS OF 429.76 FEET, AN ARC DISTANCE OF 409.81 FEET, A CHORD OF N 81°04’34”E 
394.46 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE N 53°45’28”E 247.07 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE AS A 
CURVE TO THE RIGHT HAVING A RADIUS OF 265.85 FEET, AN ARC DISTANCE OF 169.07 FEET, A CHORD 
OF N 71°58’37”E 166.24 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE S 89°48’15”E 30.98 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  
THENCE AS A CURVE TO THE LEFT HAVING A RADIUS OF 176.76 FEET, AN ARC DISTANCE 74.01 FEET, A 
CHORD OF N 78°12’03”E 73.47 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE AT THE INTERSECTION OF THE SOUTH LINE OF 
FOREST CREEK DRIVE WITH THE PARKING AREA DRIVEWAY;  THENCE ALONG THE PARKING AREA DRIVE 
THE FOLLOWING CALLS, S 48°59’32”E 91.42 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE AS A CURVE TO THE LEFT 
HAVING A RADIUS OF 380.93 FEET, AN ARC DISTANCE OF 314.90 FEET, A CHORD OF S 72°40’28”E 306.01 
FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE AS A CURVE TO THE LEFT HAVING A RADIUS OF 217.50 FEET, AN ARC 
DISTANCE OF 29.37 FEET, A CHORD OF N 79°46’30”E 29.35 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE AS A 
CURVE TO THE LEFT HAVING A RADIUS OF 333.95 FEET, AN ARAC DISTANCE OF 97.26 FEET, A CHORD OF 
N 67°33’48”E 96.91 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE LEAVING THE DRIVEWAY S 29°08’01”E 30.52 FEET 
TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE S 34°44’13”W 258.76 FEET TO AN  IRON STAKE;  THENCE S 49°57’35”E 
179.69 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE S 60°24’42”W 181.17 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE, A CORNER OF 
LOT 713, SECTION 7, FOREST CREEK GOLF COURSE DEVELOPMENT;  THENCE AS THE LINES OF SECTION 7 
N66°16’54”W 168.75 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE S85°20’40”W 428.68 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  
THENCE S 34°40’00”W 529.64 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE LEAVING SECTION 7, S 69°17’38”W 
163.00 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE IN THE EAST LINE OF A BUFFER ALONG MEYER FARM DRIVE;  THENCE AS 
A CURVE TO THE RIGHT, HAVING A RADIUS OF 560.59 FEET, AN ARC DISTANCE OF 95.11 FEET, A CHORD 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 40 of 43
OF N 03°07’27”W 94.99 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE N 01°44’10”E 160.35 FEET TO AN IRON 
STAKE;  THENCE AS A CURVE TO THE RIGHT, HAVING A RADIUS OF 1008.27 FEET, AN ARC DISTANCE OF 
397.79 FEET, A CHORD OF N 13°02’18”E 395.21 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE N 24°13’20”E 109.30 
FEET TO THE BEGINNING, CONTAINING 13.36 ACRES, MORE OR LESS. 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 41 of 43
 
 
 
 
 
 
APRIL 13, 2020 
22.07 ACRES 
COLONY 9, LLC 
  
A CERTAIN TRACT OR PARCEL OF LAND FRONTING ON THE EAST SIDE OF MEYER FARM DRIVE AND ON 
THE NORTH SIDE OF FOREST CREEK DRIVE IN THE FOREST CREEK COMMUNITY, DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS; 
 
BEGINNING AT AN IRON STAKE IN THE NORTH LINE OF FOREST CREEK DRIVE AT THE INTERSECTION OF 
FOREST CREEK DRIVE WITH MEYER FARM DRIVE, SAID BEGINNING CORNER BEING LOCATED 
N04܄°22’40”W 65.58 FEET FROM AN IRON STAKE IN THE SOUTH LINE OF FOREST CREEK DRIVE;  
RUNNING THENCE FROM THE BEGINNING AS A CURVE TO THE RIGHT, HAVING A RADIUS OF 20.00 FEET, 
AN ARC DISTANCE OF 32.17 FEET, A CHORD OF N 21܄°51’50”W 28.81 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE IN THE 
EAST LINE OF MEYER FARM DRIVE;  THENCE AS THE EAST LINES OF MEYER FARM DRIVE THE FOLLOWING 
CALLS,   AS A CURVE TO THE LEFT HAVING A RADIUS OF 325.00 FEET, AN ARC DISTANCE OF 296.50 FEET, 
A CHORD OF N 01܄°19’25”W 286.32 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE N 27܄°14’56”W 316.00 FEET TO 
AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE AS A CURVE TO THE RIGHT, HAVING A RADIUS OF 710.00 FEET, AN ARC 
DISTANCE OF 350.56 FEET, A CHORD OF N 13܄°06’05”W 347.01 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE 
N01܄°02’34”E 113.12 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE AS A CURVE TO THE LEFT HAVING A RADIUS OF 
1290.00 FEET, AN ARC DISTANCE OF 429.37 FEET, A CHORD OF N 08܄°29’34”W 427.39 FEET TO AN IRON 
STAKE;  THENCE AS A CURVE TO THE RIGHT HAVING A RADIUS OF 570.00 FEET, AN ARC DISTANCE OF 
317.17 FEET, A CHORD OF N 02܄°05’03”W 313.09 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE LEAVING MEYER 
FARM DRIVE  AS THE LINES OF A CONSERVATION EASEMENT THE FOLLOWING CALLS, S 88܄°57’41”E 
389.74 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE S 44܄°00’23”E 211.84 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE 
S69܄°54’54”E 321.62 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE S 21܄°55’46”W 125.40 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  
THENCE S 55܄°09’34”W 105.24 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE S 23܄°14’22”W 76.41 FEET TO AN IRON 
STAKE;  THENCE S 21܄°36’08”E 136.00 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE S 03܄°59’14”E 170.98 FEET TO A 
CORNER;  THENCE S 13܄°27’04”E 51.59 FEET TO A CORNER;  THENCE S 34܄°45’37”W 31.73 FEET TO A 
CORNER;  THENCE S 60܄°54’57”W 119.51 FEET TO A CORNER;  THENCE S 32܄°53’ 36”W 148.07 FEET TO A 
CORNER;  THENCE S 16܄°22’08”W 39.99 FEET TO A CORNER;  THENCE S 66܄°14’21”E 58.20 FEET TO A 
CORNER;  THENCE N 65܄°54’17”E 69.02 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE S07܄°46’01”E 83.07 FEET TO 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 42 of 43
AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE  S 35܄°36’10”W 163.85 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE S 30܄°44’11”E 398.02 
FEET TO AN IRON STAKE IN THE NORTH LINE OF FOREST CREEK DRIVE;  THENCE AS THE NORTH LINES OF 
FOREST CREEK DRIVE S 53܄°45’00”W 123.13 FEET TO AN IRON STAKE;  THENCE AS A CURVE TO THE 
RIGHT HAVING A RADIUS OF 370.00 FEET, AN ARC DISTANCE OF 377.27 FEET, A CHORD OF S82܄°57’27”W 
361.14 FEET TO THE BEGINNING, CONTAINING  22.07 ACRES, MORE OR LESS. 
 
 
 
Z-02-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 43 of 43
Agenda Item 
To: 
Reagan Parsons, Town Manager 
Via: 
BJ Grieve, Planning Director 
From: 
Suzy Russell, Planner II 
Subject: 
CU-03-20: Conditional Use Permit; Major Amendment 
to CU-04-99; Increase in Intensity; Designation of 
additional Land Uses; 35.43 Acres;  Applicant, Colony 9, 
LLC Mr. Earl Ellis; Authorized Agent, Mr. Bob Koontz 
of Koontz Jones Design, PLLC.   
Date: 
June 9, 2020 
I.
SUMMARY OF APPLICATION REQUEST:
Mr. Bob Koontz on behalf of Mr. Earl Ellis, of Colony 9, LLC has submitted a Conditional
Use Permit application for a major amendment to Conditional Use Permit CU-04-99
requesting approval to increase the overall total number of residential units permitted, 750
single-family lots, by 25 and also to add a multi-family condominium development as an
allowable use for the property.  The multi-family development would impact sections 1
and 20 in the Forest Creek development and would be limited to a total of 30 units.  The
applicant has also applied separately to rezone section 1 and 20 to RM-2 (Residential
Mixed Housing).  Currently the Forest Creek development is zoned RS-3 (Residential
Single-Family).   Section 1 is 13.36 acres and Section 20 is 22.07 acres.  Section 1 lies east
of Meyer Farm Drive and south of Forest Creek Drive with Section 20 also to the east of
Meyer Farm Drive and north of Forest Creek Drive, within the Forest Creek development
west of the clubhouse.  Infrastructure was constructed during the overall development of
Forest Creek and are readily available presently.  The subject property is identified by the
following: PIN: 857300393172 (PARID 00037691) and the property owner is listed as
Colony 9, LLC.
II.
PLANNING BOARD ACTION:
At the May 21, 2020 Regular Meeting of the Planning Board (held via electronic meeting
due to statewide social distancing requirements), the Planning Board held a legislative
public hearing per UDO §2.5.2 which states that when the Planning Board serves as a
recommending body for an action requiring a quasi-judicial hearing by the Town Council
the Board may follow the rules for a legislative hearing to gather broader public testimony.
The Planning Board heard from those in attendance regarding application CU-03-20.
Planning staff entered staff memo CU-03-20 into the public record as Exhibit A and
presented a review of the Conditional Use Permit application.  The Planning Board
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 1 of 24
inquired If people were notified of this CUP application and Ms. Russell responded with 
the following dates: Notice of Planning Board Public Hearing: 
o Posted On-site: May 06, 2020 
o Mailed: May 08, 2020 
o Internet: May 08, 2020 
Mr. BJ, Grieve also responded that over 400 mailed notices went out from the Planning 
Office.   
 
Following staff’s comments, the applicant’s agent, Mr. Bob Koontz presented a series of 
PowerPoint slides, (Exhibit B) summarizing the proposed amendments and addressed 
questions from the Planning Board.   
 
After closing the public hearing, a motion was made by Ms. Diane Westbrook and 
seconded by Mr. Lemuel Dowdy to adopt Attachment A of the staff report as Findings of 
Fact regarding the proposed Conditional Use Permit CU-03-20.  The motion passed 
unanimously 6-0 (Cooper Carter was absent.).  Ms. Diane Westbrook moved to 
recommend to the Town Council approval of Conditional Use Permit CU-01-20 and Ms. 
Kim Wade seconded the motion.  The motion passed unanimously (Cooper Carter was 
absent).    
 
The adopted Planning Board Findings of Fact may be found attached to this staff report.   
 
III. 
PROJECT INFORMATION: 
 
A. Property Owner & Applicant Information: 
 
i. 
Physical Address: 
200 Meyer Farm Drive 
Pinehurst, NC 28374 
 
ii. 
Property Owner / Applicant: 
Colony 9, LLC 
Mr. Earl Ellis 
19 Cumberland Drive 
Pinehurst, NC 28374 
 
iii. 
Authorized Agent: 
Bob Koontz of Koontz Jones Design 
150 S Page Street 
Southern Pines, NC 28387 
 
B. PROPERTY INFORMATION: 
 
i. 
Size of Properties: 
Total Current Acreage: 
 
35.43 acres  
 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 2 of 24
ii. 
Property Zoning Classification: 
The subject property is zoned RS-3 (Residential Single-Family 30,000 sf lots) (see 
Figure 1 below).  The applicant has applied to Rezone Section 1 and Section 20 to 
RM-2 (Residential Mixed-Housing 5-7 DU/acre) 
 
 
 
 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 3 of 24
Figure 1: Zoning Map (Subject Property Highlighted Aqua): 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 4 of 24
Figure 2: Vicinity Map of Section 1 and Section 20 of Forest Creek: 
  
 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 5 of 24
Figure 3: Vicinity of Subject Property: 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 6 of 24
Figure 4: Powell Bill Map: 
 
 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 7 of 24
Figure 5: Existing Public Utilities: 
 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 8 of 24
IV. 
PROJECT DETAILS:  
 
A. Description of Proposed Amendment: 
The applicant submitted a Conditional Use Permit application for a major 
amendment to Conditional Use Permit CU-04-99 requesting approval to increase 
the overall total number of residential units permitted, 750 single-family lots, by 25 
and also to add a multi-family condominium development as a use for the property.  
The multi-family development would impact sections 1 and 20 in the Forest Creek 
development (see Figure 2 above) and would be limited to a total of 30 units.  The 
overall residential family dwelling units will increase to 775 dwelling units, of those 
up to 30 will be multi-family condominiums.  The applicant has applied to rezone 
section 1 and 20 to RM-2 (Residential Mixed Housing).  Currently the Forest Creek 
development is zoned RS-3 (Residential Single-Family).   Sections 1 and 20 were 
previously approved to be used for single-family detached residential units similar 
to the rest of Forest Creek.  Section 1 is 13.36 acres and Section 20 is 22.07 acres.  
Section 1 lies east of Meyer Farm Drive and south of Forest Creek Drive with 
Section 20 also to the east of Meyer Farm Drive and north of Forest Creek Drive, 
within the Forest Creek development west of the clubhouse.  Sewer and water 
infrastructure was constructed during the overall development of Forest Creek and 
is readily available presently (please see Figure 5 above).  Access to the lots will 
be via Meyer Farm Drive, however the applicant has not addressed proposed 
driveway locations at this time.   The applicant has addressed the six (6) criteria  
required for a CUP and provided a narrative for the proposed amendment as well 
as an existing condition plan set showing the location of Section 1 and Section 20 
of Forest Creek and are attached to this staff report. 
 
V. 
STAFF REVIEW: 
 
i. 
Application Review Dates: 
• Conditional Use Permit Major Amendment Application Submitted: March 
9. 2020 
• Unable to Process Application Email Sent to Applicants: March 16, 2020 
• Application Complete: April 20, 2020 
• TRC Review: May 05, 2020  
• Notice of Planning Board Public Hearing: 
o Posted On-site: May 06, 2020 
o Mailed: May 08, 2020 
o Internet: May 08, 2020 
• Planning Board Agenda Meeting: N/A 
• Planning Board Public Hearing: May 21, 2020 
• Town Council Agenda Meeting:  June 3, 2020 
• Town Council Public Hearing: June 09, 2020 
 
 
 
 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 9 of 24
 
 
ii. 
Criteria for Review: 
i. Conditional Use Permit (UDO §2.21.7): 
A conditional Use is permitted only if the applicant demonstrates that: 
A. The proposed conditional use shall comply with all regulations of 
the applicable zoning district and any applicable supplemental use 
regulations; 
B. The proposed conditional use shall conform to the character of the 
neighborhood in which it is located and not injure the use and 
enjoyment of property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes 
already permitted; 
C. Adequate public facilities shall be provided as set forth herein; 
D. The proposed use shall not impede the orderly Development and 
improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted within the 
zoning district or substantially diminish or impair the property 
values within the neighborhood; 
E. The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the proposed use 
shall not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, 
comfort or general welfare; and, 
F. The public interest and welfare supporting the proposed use shall 
be sufficient to outweigh individual interests that are adversely 
affected by the establishment of the proposed use. 
 
iii. 
Staff Comments: 
i. 
General Staff Comments: 
• The applicant is requesting to increase overall density by 25 
dwelling units.  The original approved total number of dwelling 
units approved under CU-04-99 is 750 du.  The total number of 
dwelling units after the request of the applicant is 775 du.  Of the 
total 775 dwelling units 30 may be multi-family condominiums.   
 
• The applicant is requesting to allow multi-family housing for 
Section 1 and Section 20 which are parcels of land that lie within 
the Forest Creek development, an existing gated development.   
 
iv. 
Outside Agency Comments: 
 
On May 07, 2020 a request for agency comments that contained a public hearing 
notice was emailed to the following agencies: 
• Town of Southern Pines (Public Works, Fire, Recreation and Parks and 
Administration) 
• Regional Land Use Advisory Commission (RLUAC) 
• North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) 
• United States Fish & Wildlife Service (USF&WS) 
 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 10 of 24
As of the date of completion of this memo for the Town Council public hearing, 
agency comments have not been received. 
 
VI. 
ATTACHMENTS: 
 
1. Conditional Use Permit Application 
2. Applicant’s Project Narrative 
3. Applicant’s Exhibit B: CUP Justification Letter 
4. Existing Conditions Site Plan 
 
Additional application materials such as the agent authorization form, deed and adjacent 
property notification mailing lists are available for inspection at the office of the Town of 
Southern Pines Planning and Inspections Department. 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 11 of 24
VII. 
TOWN COUNCIL ACTION: 
 
To either approve or deny a Conditional Use Permit application, the Town Council 
shall make findings of fact and conclusions to the applicable standards. The Town 
Council shall first vote on whether the application is complete and whether the facts 
presented are relevant to the case.  The Town Council shall then vote on whether the 
application complies with the criteria as set forth in Section 2.21.7(A-F) Criteria for 
a Conditional Use Permit, Criteria A-F.  The Town Council may choose one of the 
following motions or any alternative they wish: 
 
I move to: 
 
1. Adopt Attachment “A” of the staff report as our Findings of Fact regarding the 
proposed Conditional Use Permit CU-03-20. 
 
2. Adopt Attachment “A” of the staff report as our Findings of Fact regarding the 
proposed 
Conditional 
Use 
Permit 
CU-03-20 
with 
the 
following 
changes__________________. 
 
Next, the Town Council shall vote on whether to approve, deny or approve with 
conditions the proposed Conditional Use Permit.  The Town Council may choose one 
of the following motions, or any alternative they wish: 
 
I move to : 
 
1. Approve the Conditional Use Permit CU-03-20. 
2. Deny the Conditional Use Permit CU-03-20 
3. Approve the Conditional Use Permit for CU-03-20 with the following additional 
conditions…. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 12 of 24
ATTACHMENT “A” 
Draft Town Council Findings of Fact 
Conditional Use Permit Application CU-03-20 
 
Finding of Fact #1: 
 
The Town Council finds that the application is complete and that the facts submitted are relevant 
to the case because the request for Conditional Use Permit approval has met the specified submittal 
requirements as required in the Town of Southern Pines UDO Appendices and the evidence 
submitted was sworn testimony by qualified experts or provided through substantiated 
documentation. 
 
Finding of Fact #2: 
 
The Town Council finds that the application complies with UDO §2.21.7 Criteria for a Conditional 
Use Permit, Criteria A-F, in that: 
 
A. The proposed conditional use shall comply with all regulations of the applicable 
zoning district and any applicable supplemental use regulations; 
The Town Council finds that Section 1 and Section 20, two parcels within the Forest Creek 
development will be re-zoned to RM-2 Residential Mixed Housing to allow for up to 30 
condominium multi-family dwelling units to be developed because a Conditional Use 
Permit may be amended, for this request in particular, to designate an additional land use 
under new zoning and increase in intensity under UDO §2.21.13.  Sections 1 and 20 will 
comply with all regulations related to the RM-2 zoning district.       
 
B. The proposed conditional use shall conform to the character of the neighborhood in 
which it is located and not injure the use and enjoyment of property in the immediate 
vicinity for the purposes already permitted;  
The Town Council finds that the proposed multi-family development may be considered 
an appropriate land use inside Forest Creek because it promotes compatible infill in an 
existing neighborhood. The RM-2 multi-family condominium development totaling 35.43 
acres, is limited to Section 1 and Section 20 which lies within the gated community of 
Forest Creek.  The density will only be increased by 25 total dwelling units.     
 
C. Adequate public facilities shall be provided as set forth herein;  
The Town Council finds that adequate facilities are in place and can be extended to serve 
the project.     
  
D. The proposed use shall not impede the orderly development and improvement of 
surrounding property for uses permitted within the zoning district or substantially 
diminish or impair the property values within the neighborhood; 
The Town Council finds the proposed modest increase in density and change in the 
approved Forest Creek CUP to allow multi-family land use in Section 1 and 20 as 
conducive to the community’s long-range goals which encourages development of a 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 13 of 24
variety of housing types in new residential areas and promoting compatible infill in existing 
neighborhoods.   
 
E. The establishment, maintenance or operation for the proposed use shall not be 
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort, or general welfare; and 
The Town Council finds that the proposed modest increase in density and change in the 
approved Forest Creek CUP to allow multi-family land use in Section 1 and 20 will not 
have detrimental impacts on the safety, comfort or general welfare because future site-
specific development will be required to adhere to all site design standards and building 
standards, including, but not limited to compliance with the building code. The site design 
requirements must be met prior to the Town of Southern Pines approving building permits 
for new commercial and/or multi-family structures.  
 
F. The public interest and welfare supporting the proposed use shall be sufficient to 
outweigh individual interests that are adversely affected by the establishment of the 
proposed use; 
The Town Council finds that the proposed development will comply with applicable 
standards and regulations found within the Town of Southern Pines UDO that are based on 
the public interest and welfare.  The rezoning to RM-2 allowing for 30 multi-family units 
in Section 1 and Section 20 will allow the petitioner the ability to offer the condominium 
dwelling units to the members of the club of Forest Creek.  The proximity of Sections 1 
and 20 to the club’s recreational features support the interest and welfare of the members 
of Forest Creek.   
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 14 of 24
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 15 of 24
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 16 of 24
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 17 of 24
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 18 of 24
 
 
 
                                              KOONTZJONESDesign 
                                                                                                                                                          LAND PLANNING  LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE  
 
 
 
 
 
150 PAGE STREET 
SOUTHERN PINES, NC 28387 
P: 910.639.4058 
 
FOREST CREEK SECTION 1 AND 20 
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT NARRATIVE 
 
The  community  known  as  Forest  Creek  began  development  in  the  1990s  and  is  a  gated  golf  course 
community off Airport Road in Southern Pines, North Carolina.  Two golf courses, a clubhouse, amenities 
and several residential lots and homes have been developed within the property.  In 1999 a Conditional 
Use Permit (CU‐04‐99) for the RS‐3 district was approved which permitted up to a total of 750 residential 
single‐family lots to be developed on the property, along with the golf courses and amenity areas.  To 
date, 704 residential lots have been recorded within Forest Creek. 
 
This application seeks to amend the original Conditional Use Permit (CUP) for the RS‐3 district to increase 
the  overall  total  number  of  residential  units  permitted  by  25  and  add  multi‐family  condominium 
development  as  a  use  for  the  property.    While  the  increase  of  25  units  would  impact  the  overall 
development,  the  ability  to  develop  multi‐family  condominiums  would  only  pertain  to  Sections  1                
(+/‐ 13.36 acres) and 20 (+/‐ 22.07 acres) as shown in the attached exhibit.  Multi‐family development in 
Sections 1 and 20 would be limited to a total of 30 units.   
 
Sections 1 and 20 are located within Forest Creek near the clubhouse and main amenity area, just off 
Meyer Farm Drive.  Potential development of these area would allow for 30 multi‐family units with the 
balance of the property to be developed as 1/3‐acre single‐family detached lots. Sections 1 and 20 were 
intended to be developed as single‐family detached residential units.  As the property has developed over 
the years, a demand for multi‐family condominiums has surfaced.  The proposed modification to the CUP 
would allow Colony 9 the ability to offer the condominium product to the members of the club within the 
Forest Creek community.  Locating the condominium units near the clubhouse, pool and other amenity 
areas would provide the owners with easy access to the club’s recreational features.  
 
These  plans  are  consistent  with  the  Comprehensive  Long‐Range  Plan  (CLRP)  which  designates  the 
property as Residential/Golf.  The condominium buildings would be subject to the Town’s multi‐family 
guidelines  as  specified  in  the  Unified  Development  Ordinance.    As  such,  the  building  elevations  and 
materials will be subject to review by the Town Council for an Architectural Compliance Permit. 
 
Water and sewer utilities for Sections 1 and 20 are readily available and were constructed during the 
overall development of Forest Creek.  Any additional infrastructure needed to serve Sections 1 and 20 on‐
site will be developed as the parcels are constructed, the cost of which will be by the developer.  Any 
additional on‐site utility infrastructure will be located underground. 
 
 
 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 19 of 24
EXHIBIT A 
 
Forest Creek Section 1 and 20 
Conditional Use Permit Justification  
 
Below are listed the six (6) criteria required to approve a Conditional Use Permit application as described in Section 
2.21.7 of the Town of Southern Pines Unified Development Ordinance (UDO).  Following the individual criteria is an 
explanation, indicated in red, describing how the project demonstrates compliance with each of these criteria. 
A Conditional Use is permitted only if the Applicant demonstrates that:  
 
(A) The proposed conditional use shall comply with all regulations of the applicable zoning district and any 
applicable supplemental use regulations;  
This application seeks to amend the previously approved Conditional Use Permit ‐ CU‐04‐99 (CUP) for the 
RS‐3 district to increase the overall total number of residential units permitted by 25 and add multi‐family 
condominium development as a use for the property.  While the increase of 25 units would impact the 
overall development, the ability to develop multi‐family condominiums would only pertain to Sections 1 
(+/‐ 13.36 acres) and 20 (+/‐ 22.07 acres) as shown in the attached exhibit.  Multi‐family development in 
Sections 1 and 20 would be limited to a total of 30 units.  Development of sections 1 and 20 will meet the 
applicable standards of the UDO. 
(B) The proposed conditional use shall conform to the character of the neighborhood in which it is located and 
not injure the use and enjoyment of property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted;  
Proposed development of Sections 1 and 20 will conform to the character of the neighborhood.  Buildings 
will be required to meet the internal design standards of Forest Creek.  Residential lots at 1/3 acre will be 
consistent with other lots located near sections 1 and 20.   
 
In addition to internal Forest Creek design standards, multi‐family condominiums will be subject to the 
Town’s multi‐family guidelines as specified in the UDO.  As such, the building elevations and materials will 
be subject to review by the Town Council for an Architectural Compliance Permit.  The conditional use will 
meet the standards and is in character with the surrounding properties.  
 
(C) Adequate public facilities shall be provided as set forth herein;  
Public water and sewer utilities are readily available for the project and were developed with other sections 
of Forest Creek.  Any cost for on‐site utilities will be borne by the developer. Lots will have adequate access 
to accommodate emergency and waste removal vehicles and any additional utilities to serve residential lots 
or condominiums will be located underground. 
 
(D) The proposed use shall not impede the orderly Development and improvement of surrounding property for 
uses permitted within the zoning district or substantially diminish or impair the property values within the 
neighborhood;  
This project will not impede the development of surrounding properties as it is in conformance with the 
surrounding  development  and  part  of  the  overall  master‐planned  community.    The  proposed  CUP 
modification  would  allow  Colony  9  the  ability  to  offer  additional  single‐family  detached  lots  and  a 
condominium product to the members of the club within the border of the Forest Creek Golf Community.  
Locating the condominium units near the clubhouse, pool and other amenity areas would provide the 
owners with easy access to the club’s recreational features 
 
(E) The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the proposed use shall not be detrimental to or endanger 
the public health, safety, comfort or general welfare; and 
This development will become part of the overall private Forest Creek Golf Community and subject to its 
standards and regulations.  The residential neighborhood developed in sections 1 and 20 will continue the 
existing development pattern in the neighborhood and will conform to all development standards of the 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 20 of 24
EXHIBIT A 
 
UDO and engineering requirements of the Town. As a result, the use will not be detrimental to or endanger 
the public health, safety, comfort or general welfare of the surrounding neighborhood. 
 
(F) The public interest and welfare supporting the proposed use shall be sufficient to outweigh individual 
interests that are adversely affected by the establishment of the proposed use. 
The conditional use is in compliance with the established development pattern within the existing Forest 
Creek Golf Community and is in context with the currently approved CUP.  This project is also consistent 
with  the  goals  and  objectives  of  the  Comprehensive  Long‐Range  Plan  and  establishes  a  development 
pattern that is in consistent with the surrounding neighborhood. 
 
The development pattern also meets the land use goals defined by the CLRP by adding development where 
public utilities are available and developing infill locations, since sections 1 and 20 are located within an 
established community. 
 
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 21 of 24
A
0'
250'
250'
500'
1000'
SCALE: 1" = 500'-0"
FOREST CREEK
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
EXHIBIT A
SOUTHERN PINES, NC
MARCH 9, 2020
SECTION 20
±22.07 AC
SECTION 01
±13.36 AC
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 22 of 24
A
0'
50'
50'
100'
200'
SCALE: 1" = 100'-0"
FOREST CREEK
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
EXHIBIT B
SOUTHERN PINES, NC
MARCH 9, 2020
SECTION 20
±22.07 AC
SECTION 01
±13.36 AC
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 23 of 24
A
0'
50'
50'
100'
200'
SCALE: 1" = 100'-0"
FOREST CREEK
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
EXHIBIT C
SOUTHERN PINES, NC
MARCH 9, 2020
SECTION 20
±22.07 AC
SECTION 01
±13.36 AC
CU-03-20 Forest Creek
June 2020 Town Council
Page 24 of 24
1
        AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
THE FISCAL YEAR 2020/2021 BUDGET
       AND LEVYING THE TAX RATE
        
BE IT ORDAINED AND ESTABLISHED  by the Town Council of Southern Pines assembled
in regular session  this 22nd day of June 2020, as follows:
SECTION 1.      That for the expenses of the Town government and its activities for the fiscal
year ending June 30,  2021  as set forth in the Town of Southern Pines,   North Carolina  Annual Budget, 
the amounts in the following section, or as much thereof as may be necessary, are hereby appropriated
in the  manner  prescribed  in the budget document,  and  the  revenue  estimates  as  forth  are  hereby 
adopted:
I.
GENERAL FUND
             BUDGET
2020-2021
1.        REVENUES
           AD VALOREM TAXES:
                          Current
10,839,565
$         
                          Delinquent
20,000
                          Penalties & Interest
18,000
           TOTAL
10,877,565
$         
            OTHER TAXES AND LICENSES
                           1 Cent Local Sales Tax-Article 39
1,275,000
$           
                           1/2 Cent Local Sales Tax-Article 40
670,000
                           1/2 Cent Local Sales Tax-Article 42
625,000
                           1/2 Cent Local Sales Tax-Article 44/Hold Harmless
637,000
                           Short Term Rental Property Tax
48,000
                           Beer/Wine License
2,000
                           Solid Waste Disposal Tax
9,000
                           Municipal Vehicle Tax
61,150
                           Alcoholic Beverage Ctrl
165,000
           TOTAL
3,492,150
$           
          UNRESTRICTED INTERGOVT
                 REVENUE:
                          Beer and Wine Tax
58,000
$                
                          Video Programming
154,000
                          Utilities Franchise/Sales
1,000,000
           TOTAL
1,212,000
$           
           RESTRICTED INTERGOVT
                 REVENUE:
                          Powell Bill Allocation
401,000
$              
                          Fire Grant
177,180
                          Fema Revenue
0
                          State Aid Library
5,951
                          Recreation Grants
1,250
           TOTAL
585,381
$              
           PERMITS AND FEES:
                          Inspections
300,000
$              
                          Planning
35,000
                          Zoning Fees
15,000
                          Homeowner Recovery Fee
1,000
                          Street Department
30,000
                          Public Works
15,000
                          Police Department
18,000
           TOTAL
414,000
$              
2
             BUDGET
2020-2021
           SALES AND SERVICES:
                          Library
40,000
$                
                          Police Extra Duty
65,000
                          Recreation Fees
195,000
                          Rents
310,500
                          Facility Rental - Recreation
35,000
                          Court Facilities Fee
300
                          Reservoir Park
6,000
                          Disposal Fee/Recycling Fee
858,858
           TOTAL
1,510,658
$           
           INVESTMENT EARNINGS:
110,250
$              
           OTHER REVENUES:
                          Miscellaneous Revenue
46,400
$                
                          Surplus Property Sale
85,000
                          Cemetery
1,000
                          Court Costs
2,500
                          Fire District Revenue
613,607
                          Donations
3,000
           TOTAL
751,507
$              
           FUND BALANCE:
1,739,405
           TOTAL GENERAL FUND REVENUES
20,692,916
$         
           Legislative
177,856
$              
           General Administration
687,381
           Information Technology
1,190,491
           Financial Services
757,814
           Police Administration and Patrol
3,933,220
           Police Communications
548,115
           Investigations
981,522
           Fire/Rescue
2,843,656
           Planning 
412,804
           Inspections
416,899
           Street Maintenance
1,662,230
           Public Works/Sanitation
2,644,723
           Garage
326,616
           Recreation
1,479,653
           Library
972,107
           Buildings and Grounds
1,347,697
           Special Appropriations
28,750
           W/S Indirect Cost
(1,141,360)
           Debt Service - Fire Sub-Station
505,414
           Debt Service - Police Station
485,864
           Debt Service - Annex Up Fit
74,538
           Debt Service - Fire Truck
136,926
           Transfer to CP Parking Lots
45,000
           Transfer to CP Steambank Stabilization
75,000
           Transfer to CP Sidewalks - Phase II
100,000
           TOTAL GENERAL FUND APPROPRIATIONS
20,692,916
$         
3
WATER AND SEWER OPERATING FUND
             BUDGET
2020-2021
II.
1.        REVENUES
                          Water Charges
4,380,550
$           
                          Sewer Charges
2,885,650
                          Connection and Tap Fees
200,000
                          Service Charge & Penalties
120,000
                          Interest on Investments
65,000
                          Bulk Water Sales
618,122
                          BAB Interest Rebate
1,141
                          Gain on Sale of Assets
26,000
                          Miscellaneous
5,000
                          Transfer In- Retained Earnings
1,728,236
           TOTAL WATER/SEWER FUND OPERATING
                 REVENUES
10,029,699
$         
                          Water Treatment
1,500,427
$           
                          Water Extension/Maintenance
1,156,699
                          Sewer Extension/Maintenance
1,350,152
                          Billing and Collections
523,972
                          Sewage Treatment
2,100,000
                          Water/Sewer Indirect Cost
1,141,360
                          Transfer to CP Water Treatment Proc Modernization
305,900
                          Transfer to CP Sanitary Sewer Modernization
750,000
                          Transfer to CP Lift Station Upgrades
530,000
                          Transfer to CP Water & Sewer Improvements
250,000
                           Interest Expense/Financing Principal
421,189
           TOTAL WATER/SEWER OPERATING
                 APPROPRIATIONS
10,029,699
$         
2019-2020
2020-2021
AMENDED
PROJECT
ADJUSTMENTS
PROJECT 
AUTHORIZATION
INCR/(DECR)
AUTHORIZATION
CEMETERY PERPETUAL CARE
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Interest Earned
14,000
$                  
500
$                       
14,500
$                
Sale of Plots
66,000
4,000
                      
70,000
    TOTAL
80,000
$                  
4,500
$                    
84,500
$                
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Reserved for Future Exp
80,000
$                  
4,500
$                    
84,500
$                
    TOTAL
80,000
$                  
4,500
$                    
84,500
$                
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     
 
BUILDING RENOVATION FUND
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Interest Earned 
1,100
$                    
-
$                        
1,100
$                  
Transfer In-General Fund
13,000
$                  
-
                          
13,000
                  
Financing Proceeds
540,000
                  
710,000
                  
1,250,000
    TOTAL
554,100
$                
710,000
$                
1,264,100
$           
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction-Garage
128,600
$                
150,000
$                
278,600
$              
Construction-Comm Serv
425,500
560,000
                  
985,500
    TOTAL
554,100
$                
710,000
$                
1,264,100
$           
4
2019-2020
2020-2021
AMENDED
PROJECT
ADJUSTMENTS
PROJECT 
AUTHORIZATION
INCR/(DECR)
AUTHORIZATION
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     OPEN SPACE
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Interest Earned 
9,700
$                    
-
$                        
9,700
$                  
Transfer In-Fund 47
126,000
                  
-
                          
126,000
    TOTAL
135,700
$                
-
$                        
135,700
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Land
135,700
$                
-
$                        
135,700
$              
    TOTAL
135,700
$                
-
$                        
135,700
$              
CAPITAL PROJECT -
      NICKS CREEK PARKWAY
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Interest Earned 
15,000
$                  
-
$                        
15,000
$                
Land Exc Proceeds/60 Fd
57,000
                    
-
                          
57,000
    TOTAL
72,000
$                  
-
$                        
72,000
$                
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
72,000
$                  
-
$                        
72,000
$                
    TOTAL
72,000
$                  
-
$                        
72,000
$                
CAPITAL PROJECT -
      ENTERPRISE INFORMATION AND DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Interest Earned 
14,200
$                  
-
$                        
14,200
$                
Transfer In-CP Police Station
240,500
                  
-
                          
240,500
                
Transfer In-CP Patrick Road
49,985
                    
-
                          
49,985
                  
Transfer In-Utility Fund
256,500
                  
-
                          
256,500
                
Transfer In-General Fund
525,000
                  
-
                          
525,000
                
    TOTAL
1,086,185
$             
-
$                        
1,086,185
$           
2. APPROPRIATIONS
ERP Expenditures
861,185
$                
-
$                        
861,185
$              
Transfer Out - CP Lib HVAC
225,000
-
                          
225,000
    TOTAL
1,086,185
$             
-
$                        
1,086,185
$           
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     
 
 
PARKING LOT PROJECT
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Transfer In-GF
243,000
$                
45,000
$                  
288,000
$              
    TOTAL
243,000
$                
45,000
$                  
288,000
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
243,000
$                
45,000
$                  
288,000
$              
    TOTAL
243,000
$                
45,000
$                  
288,000
$              
5
2019-2020
2020-2021
AMENDED
PROJECT
ADJUSTMENTS
PROJECT 
AUTHORIZATION
INCR/(DECR)
AUTHORIZATION
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     STORM WATER IMPROVEMENTS
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Interest Earned 
22,500
$                  
-
$                        
22,500
$                
Transfer In-CP Patrick Rd
50,000
                    
-
                          
50,000
                  
Transfer In-GF
499,000
                  
-
                          
499,000
    TOTAL
571,500
$                
-
$                        
571,500
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
571,500
$                
-
$                        
571,500
$              
    TOTAL
571,500
$                
-
$                        
571,500
$              
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     BIKE TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Transfer In-CP Patrick Rd
138,000
$                
-
$                        
138,000
$              
Transfer In-GF
140,000
                  
-
                          
140,000
    TOTAL
278,000
$                
-
$                        
278,000
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
278,000
$                
-
$                        
278,000
$              
    TOTAL
278,000
$                
-
$                        
278,000
$              
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     STREAMBANK STABILIZATION PROJECT
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Transfer In-GF
-
$                        
75,000
$                  
75,000
$                
    TOTAL
-
$                        
75,000
$                  
75,000
$                
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
-
$                        
75,000
$                  
75,000
$                
    TOTAL
-
$                        
75,000
$                  
75,000
$                
CAPITAL PROJECT -
      
 
 
FACILITY MODERNIZATION FUND
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Transfer In-General Fund
416,567
$                
-
$                        
416,567
$              
Transfer In-Utility Fund
302,334
                  
-
                          
302,334
                
Interest Earned 
-
                              
-
                          
-
                        
    TOTAL
718,901
$                
-
$                        
718,901
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction-DCC
102,750
$                
-
$                        
102,750
$              
Construction-Plan/Finance
45,967
                    
-
                          
45,967
Construction-PW Offices
56,500
                    
-
                          
56,500
                  
Construction-Library Bldg
65,250
                    
-
                          
65,250
                  
Construction-Fleet Maint Bldg
24,350
                    
-
                          
24,350
                  
Construction-Campbell Hou
63,750
                    
-
                          
63,750
                  
Construction-Plan/Finance
22,984
                    
-
                          
22,984
                  
Construction-PW Offices
56,500
                    
-
                          
56,500
                  
Construction-Fleet Maint Bldg
24,350
                    
-
                          
24,350
                  
Construction-Water Trmt Fac
198,500
                  
-
                          
198,500
                
Construction-Miscellaneous Bldg
58,000
                    
-
                          
58,000
                  
    TOTAL
718,901
$                
-
$                        
718,901
$              
6
2019-2020
2020-2021
AMENDED
PROJECT
ADJUSTMENTS
PROJECT 
AUTHORIZATION
INCR/(DECR)
AUTHORIZATION
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     UNPAVED STREET 
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Transfer In-GF
657,500
$                
-
$                        
657,500
$              
    TOTAL
657,500
$                
-
$                        
657,500
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
657,500
$                
-
$                        
657,500
$              
    TOTAL
657,500
$                
-
$                        
657,500
$              
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     SIDEWALKS - PHASE II 
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Transfer In-GF
711,150
$                
100,000
$                
811,150
$              
Transfer In-CP SIDEWALKS
46,727
                    
-
                          
46,727
    TOTAL
757,877
$                
100,000
$                
857,877
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
757,877
$                
100,000
$                
857,877
$              
    TOTAL
757,877
$                
100,000
$                
857,877
$              
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     RECREATION IMPROV 
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Transfer In-GF
357,500
$                
-
$                        
357,500
$              
    TOTAL
357,500
$                
-
$                        
357,500
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
357,500
$                
-
$                        
357,500
$              
    TOTAL
357,500
$                
-
$                        
357,500
$              
GENERAL CAPITAL
     RESERVE
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Transfer In-GF
112,500
$                
-
$                        
112,500
$              
Transfer In-CP Tyr Tactical
620
-
                          
620
Transfer In-CP Library HVAC
161
-
                          
161
Transfer In-CP Patrick Rd
80,773
                    
-
                          
80,773
                  
Transfer In-CP Fiber Optics
2,120
                      
-
                          
2,120
                    
Transfer In-CP PS Comm
3,697
                      
-
                          
3,697
                    
Transfer In-Downtown Park
6,748
                      
-
                          
6,748
                    
Transfer In-Pool Park
12,740
                    
-
                          
12,740
                  
Transfer In-Public Access Road
27,590
                    
-
                          
27,590
                  
Transfer In-Fire Sub Station
276,528
-
                          
276,528
    TOTAL
523,477
$                
-
$                        
523,477
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Capital Proj Fds
523,477
$                
-
$                        
523,477
$              
    TOTAL
523,477
$                
-
$                        
523,477
$              
7
2019-2020
2020-2021
AMENDED
PROJECT
ADJUSTMENTS
PROJECT 
AUTHORIZATION
INCR/(DECR)
AUTHORIZATION
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     
 
 
 
WARRIOR WOODS LIFT STATION
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Transfer In-Utility Fund
263,750
$                
-
$                        
263,750
$              
Transfer In-System Dev Fees
-
                          
227,851
                  
227,851
Transfer In-Sewer Impact
791,250
                  
55,300
                    
846,550
    TOTAL
1,055,000
$             
283,151
$                
1,338,151
$           
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
1,055,000
$             
283,151
$                
1,338,151
$           
    TOTAL
1,055,000
$             
283,151
$                
1,338,151
$           
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     NORTH PRESSURE WATER ZONE
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Interest Earned
10,000
$                  
-
$                        
10,000
$                
Transfer In-Utility Fund
750,000
                  
-
                          
750,000
    TOTAL
760,000
$                
-
$                        
760,000
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
760,000
$                
-
$                        
760,000
$              
    TOTAL
760,000
$                
-
$                        
760,000
$              
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     SANITARY SEWER MODERNIZATION
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Interest Earned
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                      
Transfer In-Utility Fund
-
                          
750,000
                  
750,000
    TOTAL
-
$                        
750,000
$                
750,000
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
-
$                        
750,000
$                
750,000
$              
    TOTAL
-
$                        
750,000
$                
750,000
$              
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     
 
 
WATER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
System Develop Fees
330,000
$                
172,231
$                
502,231
$              
    TOTAL
330,000
$                
172,231
$                
502,231
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Cap Imp Water
330,000
$                
(122,180)
$               
207,820
$              
Transfer to Penn/PeeDee Rd
118,483
118,483
Transfer to East Morganton Rd
-
                              
175,928
                  
175,928
                
    TOTAL
330,000
$                
172,231
$                
502,231
$              
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     
 
 
SEWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
System Develop Fees
213,827
$                
174,865
$                
388,692
$              
    TOTAL
213,827
$                
174,865
$                
388,692
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Cap Imp Sewer
213,827
$                
(52,986)
$                 
160,841
$              
Transfer to Warrior Woods
-
                              
227,851
                  
227,851
    TOTAL
213,827
$                
174,865
$                
388,692
$              
8
2019-2020
2020-2021
AMENDED
PROJECT
ADJUSTMENTS
PROJECT 
AUTHORIZATION
INCR/(DECR)
AUTHORIZATION
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     
 
 
WATER TREATMENT PROCESS MODERNIZATION
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Interest
21,600
$                  
-
$                        
21,600
$                
Transfer In -CP Water Distribution
1,000,000
212,000
                  
1,212,000
Transfer In-Utility Fund
1,333,000
               
305,900
                  
1,638,900
    TOTAL
2,354,600
$             
517,900
$                
2,872,500
$           
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
2,354,600
$             
517,900
$                
2,872,500
$           
    TOTAL
2,354,600
$             
517,900
$                
2,872,500
$           
CAPITAL PROJECT -
      WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Interest Earned
5,000
$                    
-
$                        
5,000
$                  
Transfer In-CP Water Dist
400,000
                  
-
                          
400,000
                
Transfer In-CP Raw Water
788,580
-
                          
788,580
Transfer In-CP Morgan Rd Bridge
1,195
-
                          
1,195
Transfer In-CP Econ Dev
15,455
-
                          
15,455
Transfer In-AMR
257,812
-
                          
257,812
Transfer In-E Morganton Waterline
-
                          
36,000
                    
36,000
Transfer In-Utility Fund
1,575,000
               
125,000
                  
1,700,000
    TOTAL
3,043,042
$             
161,000
$                
3,204,042
$           
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
1,999,866
$             
(51,000)
$                 
1,948,866
$           
Transfer Out-CP Wat Pl Mod
1,000,000
               
212,000
                  
1,212,000
Transfer Out-CP Morgan. Bg
43,176
                    
-
                          
43,176
    TOTAL
3,043,042
$             
161,000
$                
3,204,042
$           
CAPITAL PROJECT -
      SEWER COLLECTION SYSTEM
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Interest Earned
5,000
$                    
-
$                        
5,000
$                  
Transfer In-CP Sewer Dist
500,576
                  
-
                          
500,576
                
Transfer In-Sewer Impact Fees
-
                          
410,000
                  
410,000
                
Grant Proceeds
150,000
                  
-
                          
150,000
                
Transfer In-Utility Fund
1,856,250
               
125,000
                  
1,981,250
             
    TOTAL
2,511,826
$             
535,000
$                
3,046,826
$           
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
2,497,434
$             
535,000
$                
3,032,434
$           
Transfer Out-CP Morgan. Bg
14,392
                    
-
                          
14,392
    TOTAL
2,511,826
$             
535,000
$                
3,046,826
$           
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     
 
 
EAST MORGANTON RD WATER LINE REPLACEMENT
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Transfer In-Water System Dev
-
$                        
175,928
                  
175,928
$              
Transfer In-Water Impact Fees
378,340
                  
-
$                        
378,340
$              
    TOTAL
378,340
$                
175,928
$                
554,268
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
378,340
$                
139,928
$                
518,268
$              
Transfer Out-CP Water Improv
-
                          
36,000
                    
36,000
    TOTAL
378,340
$                
175,928
$                
554,268
$              
9
2019-2020
2020-2021
AMENDED
PROJECT
ADJUSTMENTS
PROJECT 
AUTHORIZATION
INCR/(DECR)
AUTHORIZATION
CAPITAL PROJECT -
     
 
 
LIFT STATION UPGRADES
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Transfer In-Utility Fund
-
$                        
530,000
$                
530,000
$              
    TOTAL
-
$                        
530,000
$                
530,000
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Construction
-
$                        
530,000
$                
530,000
$              
    TOTAL
-
$                        
530,000
$                
530,000
$              
WATER IMPACT
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Interest Earned
400,000
$                
-
$                        
400,000
$              
Impact Fees
4,409,792
               
-
                          
4,409,792
    TOTAL
4,809,792
$             
-
$                        
4,809,792
$           
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Capital
   Improvements
4,809,792
$             
-
$                        
4,809,792
$           
    TOTAL
4,809,792
$             
-
$                        
4,809,792
$           
SEWER IMPACT
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Interest Earned
160,000
$                
-
$                        
160,000
$              
Impact Fees
1,599,980
               
-
                          
1,599,980
    TOTAL
1,759,980
$             
-
$                        
1,759,980
$           
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Capital Improv/
1,759,980
$             
-
$                        
1,759,980
$           
   Debt Service
    TOTAL
1,759,980
$             
-
$                        
1,759,980
$           
CAPITAL PROJECT -
PENNSYLVANIA/PEEDEE ROAD LINE REPLACEMENT
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Transfer In - Water System Dev
-
$                        
118,483
$                
118,483
$              
Transfer In - Impact Fees
1,839,317
               
-
                          
1,839,317
    TOTAL
1,839,317
$             
118,483
$                
1,957,800
$           
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Design & Construction
1,839,317
$             
118,483
$                
1,957,800
$           
    TOTAL
1,839,317
$             
118,483
$                
1,957,800
$           
CAPITAL PROJECT -
MIDLAND ROAD WATER LINE REPLACEMENT
1. REVENUES AND OTHER 
    FINANCING SOURCES
Interest Earned
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                      
Impact Fees
160,438
                  
-
                          
160,438
    TOTAL
160,438
$                
-
$                        
160,438
$              
2. APPROPRIATIONS
Design & Construction
160,438
$                
-
$                        
160,438
$              
    TOTAL
160,438
$                
-
$                        
160,438
$              
10
SECTION 3.    There is herby levied a fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each vehicle within the
raising the revenue listed as "Municipal Vehicle Tax" revenue as listed in Section 1 of this ordinance.   Unde  
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its 
meeting of June  22,  2020, as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date.
North Carolina Statute 20-97, five dollars ($5.00) is available for any lawful purpose.
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk 
SECTION 2.    That in order to raise the revenue to meet the expenses of the Town Government
and its activities as  provided in the foregoing appropriation for the fiscal year  ending June 30, 2021,   there
is hereby levied a tax of $.40 on each $100 valuation of taxable property as listed for taxes in January 2020
This rate is based on a total valuation of $2,751,158,650 and an estimated collection rate of 98.50%.
Town of Southern Pines,  as authorized by North Carolina General Statute 20-97,   for the purpose of
 
CAPITAL RESERVE FUND RESOLUTION 
 
 
WHEREAS, there is a need in the Town of Southern Pines to provide funds for future 
capital projects related to its combined water and wastewater system, and WHEREAS, 
NCGS 159-18 authorizes the creation of a capital reserve fund, and WHEREAS, NCGS 
162A, Art. 8 requires that all system development fee proceeds be accounted for in a capital 
reserve fund, the revenue assumptions below reflect an estimate of system development fees 
to be collected over a period of twelve months beginning April 1, 2020: 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Town Council of Southern Pines that: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The Town Council hereby amends the Capital Reserve Fund -Water for the purpose 
of funding the following capital projects related to the Town’s water system: 
 
 
 
East Morganton Road Water Line Replacement.  An existing 6-inch 
water line will be replaced with a 12-inch water line along East Morganton 
Road from Ridge Street to Valley Road.  This project was initiated in FY19-
20 and is scheduled for completion in FY 20-21.  The cost estimate for the 
project is $378,340.  The Town intends to appropriate approximately 
$175,928 of System Development Fee revenues to the CRF for this purpose 
with the balance of upfront costs covered by water capital funds and 
remaining Impact Fees collected prior to October 1, 2018.  The project will 
address future infill development while reducing areas of low fire flow along 
Morganton Road, south of Weymouth Woods. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The 2020-2021 appropriation from the budget ordinance to the CRF-
Water of SDF proceeds for this purpose is $175,928 
 
Pennsylvania Avenue/Pee Dee Road Water Line Replacement.  An 
existing 10-inch water line will be replaced with a 16-inch water line along 
Pennsylvania/Pee Dee Road from Connecticut Avenue to Central Drive.  
This project was implemented in 2019 and is estimated to cost $1,453,034.  
The Town intends to appropriate approximately $228,853 of System 
Development Fee revenues to the CRF for this purpose with the balance of 
upfront costs covered by water capital funds and remaining Impact Fees 
collected prior to October 1, 2018.  The project will address future growth, 
pressure, and flow rates to the northern portion of Town and in particular the 
proposed North Elevated Storage Tank. 
 
 
 
2018 thru 2020 appropriations to the CCRF-Water of SDF proceeds 
for this purpose are hereby amended from $330,000 to $228,853 
 
Midland Road Water Line Replacement.  An existing 6-inch and 8-inch 
water line will be replaced with a 12-inch water line along Midland Road 
from Knoll Road to Pee Dee Road.  This project is scheduled for 
implementation in 2023 and is estimated to cost $1,069,011.  The Town 
intends to appropriate approximately $136,299 of System Development Fee 
revenues to the CRF for this purpose with the balance of upfront costs 
covered by water capital funds and remaining Impact Fees collected prior to 
October 1, 2018.  The project will address future growth and pressures to 
anticipated further development in the Mid-South and Talamore areas. 
 
 
 
The 2020-2021 appropriation from the budget ordinance to the CRF-
Water of SDF proceeds for this purpose is $71,861 
 
 
North Pressure Zone.  The Town plans to install a 184 ft. high 1.0 MG 
North Elevated Storage Tank and associated valves.  This project is 
scheduled for implementation in 2023 and is estimated to cost 
$3,212,308.  The Town intends to appropriate approximately 
$1,204,616 of System Development Fee revenues to the CRF for this 
purpose with the balance of upfront costs covered by water capital 
funds and installment loans.  The project will successfully add a 
pressure zone in the northern portion of our service area to address 
potential low flow conditions which could impact future growth in 
this area. 
 
 
 
The 2020-2021 appropriation from the budget ordinance to the CRF-
Water of SDF proceeds for this purpose is $0 
 
 
US 1 Booster Pump Addition.  The Town plans to install infrastructure to 
provide for an additional 4,500 gpm Pumping Capacity to the US 1 
Booster Pump Station.  This project is scheduled for implementation 
in 2025 and is estimated to cost $675,184.  The Town intends to 
appropriate approximately $40,511 of System Development Fee 
revenues to the CRF for this purpose with the balance of upfront 
costs covered by water capital funds and potentially loans.  The 
additional flow will support ongoing development throughout our 
Water service area. 
 
 
 
The 2020-2021 appropriation from the budget ordinance to the CRF 
of SDF proceeds for this purpose is $0 
 
 
Section 2: 
The Town Council hereby amends the Capital Reserve Fund- Sewer for the purpose 
of funding the following capital projects related to the Town’s wastewater system: 
 
 
 
 
 
Warrior Woods Pump Station Improvements:  Significant upgrades to 
both the Warrior Woods Pump Station and associated Force Main will occur through 
a series of projects that are ultimately scheduled for completion in 2027. The 
estimated cost of all projects is $8,215,965.  The Town intends to appropriate 
approximately $2,834,508 of System Development Fee revenues to the CRF for this 
purpose with the balance derived from Retained Earnings, Sewer Capital Funds, and 
remaining Impact Fees collected prior to October 1, 2018.  The first phase of this 
project was initiated in FY 2018-2019 with completion in 2020 with $791,250 
appropriated in the 2018-2019 Budget from the previous Impact Fee account and 
$263,750 appropriated from Sewer Capital Funds.  Previously, $213,827 has been 
appropriated to the CRF-Wastewater SDF toward this multi-phased project.  The 
upgrades will address additional capacity needed to support further development 
within all wastewater infrastructure in addition to replacing the maintenance heavy 
current facilities. 
 
 
 
The 2020-2021 appropriation from the budget ordinance to the CRF-
Wastewater of SDF proceeds for this purpose is $174,865 
 
 
Section 3: 
These Capital Reserve Funds shall remain effective until all the above listed 
projects, and any projects added in the future, are completed.  Capital Reserve Funds 
may be amended by the Town Council as needed to add additional appropriations, 
modify or eliminate existing capital projects, and/or add new capital projects. 
 
Section 4: 
This resolution becomes effective July 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this resolution was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at 
its meeting of June 22nd, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk  
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE  
CAPITAL RESERVE FUND WATER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital reserve fund budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is to establish a fund for the purpose of accounting for water system 
development fees to be utilized in the manner described in the Water Capital Reserve Fund 
Resolution. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the water capital reserve fund 
within the terms of the budget contained herein. 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amount is appropriated for the fund: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer to Water Capital Project Funds 
 
$172,231 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Appropriation 
 
$172,231 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following additional revenue is anticipated to be available to complete this fund: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Water System Development Fees 
 
 
$172,231 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Revenues 
 
$172,231 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this fund. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This ordinance becomes effective July 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its 
meeting of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE  
CAPITAL RESERVE FUND SEWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital reserve fund budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is to establish a fund for the purpose of accounting for sewer system 
development fees to be utilized in the manner described in the Sewer Capital Reserve Fund 
Resolution. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the water capital reserve fund 
within the terms of the budget contained herein. 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amount is appropriated for the fund: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer to Sewer Capital Project Funds 
 
$174,865 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Appropriation 
 
$174,865 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following additional revenue is anticipated to be available to complete this fund: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Sewer System Development Fees 
 
 
$174,865 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Revenues 
 
$174,865 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this fund. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This ordinance becomes effective July 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its 
meeting of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 32, PUBLIC WORKS, SECTION 32.076 
CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF SOUTHERN PINES 
 
BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines, North 
Carolina, in regular session assembled on the 9th day of June, 2020, that Chapter 32, Public Works 
Department; §32.076 Fees of the Code of Ordinances be amended as follows: 
 
1. 
Revise the table under subsection (A) of §32.076 FEES to the following: 
 
Sign Making 
Street Name Sign and Post (includes installation) 
Single blade 
$105 
Double blade 
$165.00 
Stop, yield and the like 
$80 
Handicapped parking signs 
(including maximum penalty sign) 
$25 
Van accessible sign 
$10 
"U" channel posts 
$35 
Decorative street sign/post 
Replacement cost 
plus $50 
Construction Inspection 
Street construction 
(including storm drainage) 
$2.60 per linear 
foot, 
$150 minimum 
Sidewalk construction 
$0.50 per linear 
foot,  
$150 minimum 
Water construction 
$1.00 per linear 
foot, 
$150 minimum 
Sewer construction 
$1.00 per linear 
foot,  
$150 minimum 
Unusual improvements 
$35 per hour 
Waste Disposal (per unit)  
(Waste disposal includes solid waste, recycling and yard debris 
collection) 
Effective July 1, 2020 – December 31, 2020 
$9.50 per month 
Waste Disposal (per unit)  
(Waste disposal includes solid waste, recycling and yard debris 
collection) 
Effective January 1, 2021 
$11.00 per month 
Asphalt cut repair 
Up to 300 square foot 
Over 300 square foot at 1 location 
$3 per square foot 
Cost plus 20% 
Sidewalk repair 
Up to 100 square foot 
Over 100 square foot 
$5 per square foot 
Cost plus 20% 
Curb and gutter repair 
Up to 50 linear foot 
Over 50 linear foot 
$27 per linear foot 
Cost plus 20% 
Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan Review Processing Fee 
First acre 
$300 
Each additional acre, or part thereof 
$150 
Substantial revision to previously approved or active plan 
$50 per acre or part 
thereof 
Revised plan review fee - after second review and beginning with the 
third review 
$50 each submittal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective July 1, 2020. 
 
Adopted this 9th day of June, 2020. 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern 
Pines at its meeting of June 9, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Carol R. Haney, Mayor 
 
 
 
____________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
_______________________________ 
Douglas R. Gill, Town Attorney 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 50, WATER AND SEWER USE, 
APPENDIX A: RATES, FEES AND CHARGES 
CODE OF ORDINANCES TOWN OF SOUTHERN PINES 
 
BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines, North 
Carolina, in regular session assembled on the 9th day of June, 2020, that Chapter 50, Water and 
Sewer Use, Appendix A: Rates, Fees and Charges of the Code of Ordinances be amended as 
follows: 
 
1. 
Revise subsection (A) and (B) under § 1.  SCHEDULE OF RATES, FEES AND 
CHARGES of APPENDIX A: RATES, FEES AND CHARGES to the following: 
 
 (A) Water Rates. The rates will be reviewed annually and adjusted as necessary via an 
ordinance amendment. 
(1)       Rates and Minimum Charges. 
 
(a) These fees shall be in effect until December 31, 2020. Beginning on January 1, 
2021, these fees shall be null and void and replaced with the fee schedule outlined 
under subsection (b) of this section.  
 
i. For water service, the charge per 1,000 gallons of water provided by the 
Town to a customer is as follows: 
 
(a)   To property within the Town limits 
$3.28 
(b)   To property outside the Town limits 
$6.56 
(c)   To public entities that operate water 
systems for the public 
As provided by written agreement between the 
Town and the other entity 
 
ii. For water service, the minimum monthly charge for water provided by the 
Town to a customer is based on the specific water meter size and is as 
follows: 
 
 WATER SERVICE FEES (NO VOLUME) 
MINIMUM CHARGE 
Meter Size (Inches) 
In Town 
Out of Town 
3/4" 
$11.26 
$22.52 
1" 
$18.48 
$36.96    
1½" 
$39.06 
$78.12 
2" 
$67.89 
$135.78 
3" 
$150.33 
$300.66 
4" 
$265.66 
$531.32 
6" 
$595.35 
$1,190.70 
8" 
$1,056.88 
$2,113.76 
 
(b) The following fees shall be effective January 1, 2021.  
 
i. For water service, the charge per 1,000 gallons of water provided by the 
Town to a customer is as follows: 
 
(a)   To property within the Town limits 
$3.38 
(b)   To property outside the Town limits 
$6.76 
(c)   To public entities that operate water 
systems for the public 
As provided by written agreement between the 
Town and the other entity 
 
ii. For water service, the minimum monthly charge for water provided by the 
Town to a customer is based on the specific water meter size and is as 
follows: 
 
WATER SERVICE FEES (NO VOLUME) 
MINIMUM CHARGE 
Meter Size (Inches) 
In Town 
Out of Town 
3/4" 
$12.50 
$25.00 
1" 
$20.51 
$41.03 
1½" 
$43.36 
$86.71 
2" 
$75.36 
$150.72 
3" 
$166.87 
$333.73 
4" 
$294.88 
$589.77 
6" 
$660.84 
$1,321.68 
8" 
$1,173.14 
$2,346.27 
 
(2) Bulk water rate calculations. 
(a)   Contract amount.  The contract amount will be for any quantity equal to or greater 
than 50,000 gallons per day. 
(b)   Minimum take or pay.  The customer must take or pay for the annual minimum stated 
in the contract. 
(c)   Usage over contract amount. The customer may use an amount greater than the 
contract amount when capacity is available, and the customer has obtained prior permission 
from the town. 
(d)   Annual adjustment to contract amount.  The contract provisions may be modified or 
altered by mutual written agreement of the parties. 
(e)   Flat rate charge.  The contract will provide for a flat rate charge, based on per 1,000 
gallons purchased, with a minimum total payout. 
(f)   Rate adjustments.  The town will adjust the rate, same percentage, per 1,000 gallons 
sold to the purchaser as it does to its regular, in-town, paying customers. The rate charge 
shall become effective in the July billing each year. 
(B) Sewer Rates.  These charges will be reviewed annually and adjusted as necessary via an 
ordinance amendment. 
(1)       Rates and Minimum Charges. 
 
(a) These fees shall be in effect until December 31, 2020. Beginning on January 1, 
2021, these fees shall be null and void and replaced with the fee schedule outlined 
under subsection (b) of this section.  
 
i. For sewer service, the charge per 1,000 gallons of water provided by the 
Town to a customer is as follows: 
 
(a)   To property within the Town limits 
$5.83 
(b)   To property outside the Town limits 
$11.66 
(c)   To public entities that operate water 
systems for the public 
As provided by written agreement between the 
Town and the other entity 
 
ii. For sewer service, the minimum monthly charge for water provided by the 
Town to a customer is based on the specific water meter size and is as 
follows: 
 
 SEWER SERVICE FEES (NO VOLUME) 
MINIMUM CHARGE 
Meter Size (Inches) 
In Town 
Out of Town 
3/4" 
$4.99  
$9.98  
1" 
$6.51  
$13.02  
1½" 
$10.73  
$21.46  
2" 
$16.71  
$33.42  
3" 
$33.70  
$67.40  
4" 
$57.48  
$114.96  
6" 
$125.50  
$251.00  
8" 
$220.72  
$441.44  
 
(b) The following fees shall be effective January 1, 2021.  
 
i. For sewer service, the charge per 1,000 gallons of water provided by the 
Town to a customer is as follows: 
 
(a)   To property within the Town limits 
$6.12 
(b)   To property outside the Town limits 
$12.24 
(c)   To public entities that operate water 
systems for the public 
As provided by written agreement between the 
Town and the other entity 
 
ii. For sewer service, the minimum monthly charge for water provided by the 
Town to a customer is based on the specific water meter size and is as 
follows: 
 
SEWER SERVICE FEES (NO VOLUME) 
MINIMUM CHARGE 
Meter Size (Inches) 
In Town 
Out of Town 
3/4" 
$6.50 
$13.00 
1" 
$8.46 
$16.93 
1½" 
$13.95 
$27.90 
2" 
$21.72 
$43.45 
3" 
$43.81 
$87.62 
4" 
$74.72 
$149.45 
6" 
$163.15 
$326.30 
8" 
$286.94 
$573.87 
  
      (2)   The Town may waive sewerage charges for: 
         (a)   Water customers who are not connected to a public sewer system; or 
         (b)   Water customers who use water provided by the Town for purposes that do not result in 
discharge to a public sewer system, if the customer provides a separate meter for such water to 
which standard water rates apply, including minimum and connection fees. 
      (3)   Sewer service for customers utilizing well water, but desiring sewerage service, must 
allow the Town to furnish and install, at the property owner's expense, a meter and appurtenances 
on the well at actual cost for materials, labor and equipment, plus 30%. Unrestricted access will 
be afforded Town employees to inspect.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective July 1, 2020. 
 
Adopted this 9th day of June, 2020. 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern 
Pines at its meeting of June 9, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Carol R. Haney, Mayor 
 
 
 
____________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
_______________________________ 
Douglas R. Gill, Town Attorney 
 
AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 50, WATER SYSTEM USE, 
§ 50.039 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL (BACKFLOW PREVENTION) 
CODE OF ORDINANCES TOWN OF SOUTHERN PINES 
 
BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines, North 
Carolina, in regular session assembled on the 9th day of June, 2020, that Chapter 50, Water System 
Use, § 50.039 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL (BACKFLOW PREVENTION) of the Code 
of Ordinances be amended as follows: 
 
1. 
Revise 
§ 
50.039 CROSS-CONNECTION 
CONTROL 
(BACKFLOW 
PREVENTION) to the following: 
 
   (A)   Purpose and scope. 
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to define the authority of the Town as having jurisdiction to 
ensure the safety of the water supply by eliminating unprotected cross connections to the Town’s 
potable water supply. 
      (2)   This section shall apply to all users connected to the Town’s public potable water supply 
regardless of whether or not the user is located within the Town limits. 
      (3)   All users connected to the Town’s water supply shall comply with the latest editions of 
the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act (P.L. 93-523), the North Carolina State Administrative Code 
(Title 15A, Subchapter 18C), North Carolina Plumbing Code, and the North Carolina State 
Building Code (Volume II) as they pertain to cross connections with the public water supply. 
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the 
context indicates or requires a different meaning. 
      AIR-GAP SEPARATION. A physical separation between the free-flowing discharge end of a 
potable water supply pipeline and an open or non-pressure receiving vessel.  An APPROVED AIR-
GAP SEPARATION shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe, measured vertically 
above the overflow rim of the receiving vessel—in no case less than 1 inch (2.54 cm). 
      APPROVED.  In reference to a water supply, shall mean a water supply that has been approved 
by the North Carolina Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources (Division of 
Health Services).  In reference to air-gap separation, a pressure vacuum breaker, a double check 
valve assembly, a double check detector assembly, a reduced pressure principle backflow 
prevention assembly, a reduced pressure principle detector assembly, or other backflow prevention 
assemblies or methods, shall mean an approval by the Town’s Cross-connection Coordinator. 
      APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY.  An assembly used for containment 
or isolation purposes that has been shown to meet design and performance standards of the 
American Society of Sanitary Engineers (ASSE), the American Water Works Association 
(AWWA), and the Foundation for Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic Research of the 
University of Southern California. 
      APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE.  A device used for isolation purposes 
that has been shown to meet the design and performance standards of the American Society of 
Sanitary Engineers (ASSE) and the American Water Works Association (AWWA). 
      APPROVED CHECK VALVE.  A check valve that is drip-tight in the normal direction of 
flow, when the inlet pressure is at least 1.0 psi and the outlet pressure is 0.  The check valve shall 
permit no leakage in a direction reversed to the normal flow.  The closure element (e.g., clapper, 
poppet, or other design) shall be internally loaded to promote rapid and positive 
closure.  An APPROVED CHECK VALVE is only one component of an approved backflow 
prevention assembly—i.e., pressure vacuum breaker, double check valve assembly, double check 
detector assembly, reduced pressure principle assembly, or reduced pressure detector assembly. 
      APPROVED WATER SUPPLY.  Any public potable water supply that has been investigated 
and approved by the North Carolina Department of Environment, Health, and Natural 
Resources.  The system must be operating under a valid health permit. In determining what 
constitutes an APPROVED WATER SUPPLY, the North Carolina Division of Health Services has 
reserved the final judgment as to its safety and potability. 
      ATMOSPHERIC 
VACUUM 
BREAKER or  NON-PRESSURE-TYPE 
VACUUM 
BREAKER.  A device containing a float-check, a check seat, and an air inlet port.  The flow of 
water into the body causes the float to close the air inlet port.  When the flow of water stops, the 
float falls and forms a check valve against back-siphonage, and at the same time opens the air inlet 
port to allow air to enter and satisfy the vacuum.  A shut-off valve immediately upstream may be 
an integral part of the device.  An ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER is designed to protect 
against a non-health hazard (isolation protection only) under a back-siphonage condition only. 
      AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY.  Any water supply on or available to the premises other than 
the Town’s approved public potable water supply.  These auxiliary waters may include water from 
another public potable water supply or any natural source, such as a well, spring, river, stream, and 
the like, “used water”, or industrial fluids.  These waters may be polluted, contaminated or 
objectionable, and constitute an unacceptable water source over which the Town does not have 
sanitary control. 
      BACKFLOW.  The undesirable reversal of flow of water, or mixtures of water and other 
liquids, gasses, or other substances, into the distribution pipes of the consumer or public potable 
water system from any source or sources. 
      BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY.  An assembly used to prevent backflow into the 
consumer’s water system or the public potable water system.  The type of assembly used should 
be based on the degree of hazard, either existing or potential (as defined herein).  The types are: 
         (a)   Double check valve assembly; 
         (b)   Double check detector assembly (fire system); 
         (c)   Pressure vacuum breaker; 
         (d)   Reduced pressure principle assembly; and 
         (e)   Reduced pressure principle detector assembly (fire system). 
      BACK-PRESSURE BACKFLOW.  Any elevation in the consumer water system (by pump, 
elevation of piping, or steam and/or air pressure) above the supply pressure at the point of 
delivery, which would cause, or tend to cause, a reversal of the normal direction of flow. 
      BACK-SIPHONAGE BACKFLOW.  A reversal of the normal direction of flow in the 
pipeline, due to a negative pressure (vacuum) being created in the supply line, with the backflow 
source subject to atmospheric pressure. 
      CERTIFIED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TESTER.  A person who is 
certified to make competent tests, repairs, and reports on backflow prevention assemblies.  The 
tester shall be knowledgeable of applicable law, rules and regulations, and must hold a current 
certificate from a state-approved training program in the testing and repair of backflow prevention 
assemblies. 
      CONSUMER.  Any person, firm, or corporation using or receiving water from the Town’s 
water system. 
      CONSUMER’S INDUSTRIAL PIPING SYSTEM.  Any system used by the consumer for 
transmission of, or to confine or store, any fluid, solid or gaseous substance other than an approved 
water supply.  Such a system would include all pipes, conduits, tanks, receptacles, fixtures, 
equipment, and appurtenances used to produce, convey, or store substances that are or may be 
polluted or contaminated. 
      CONSUMER’S POTABLE WATER SYSTEM.  That portion of the privately owned potable 
water system lying between the point of delivery and the point of use and/or isolation 
protection.  This system will include all pipes, conduits, tanks, receptacles, fixtures, equipment, 
and appurtenances used to produce, convey, store, or use potable water. 
      CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM.  Includes any water system commencing at the point of 
delivery and continuing throughout the consumer’s plumbing system, located on the consumer’s 
premises, whether supplied by public potable water or an auxiliary water supply.  The system or 
systems may be either a potable water system, a non-potable water supply, or an industrial piping 
system. 
      CONTAINMENT. Preventing the impairment of the public potable water supply by installing 
an approved backflow prevention assembly at the service connection. 
      CONTAMINATION.  An impairment of the quality of the water, which creates a potential or 
actual hazard to the public health through the introduction of hazardous or toxic substances, or 
through the spread of disease by sewage, industrial fluids, or waste. 
      CROSS CONNECTION.  Any unprotected actual or potential connection or structural 
arrangement between a public or a consumer’s water system, and any other source or system 
through which it is possible to introduce any contamination or pollution, other than the intended 
potable water with which the system is supplied.  By-pass arrangements, jumper connections, 
removable sections, swivel or change-over devices, and other temporary or permanent devices 
through which or because of which “backflow” can or may occur are considered to be CROSS 
CONNECTIONS. 
      DEGREE OF HAZARD.  Derived from the evaluation of conditions within a system that can 
be classified as either a “pollution” (non-health) or a “contamination” (health) hazard. 
      DOUBLE CHECK DETECTOR ASSEMBLY. A specially designed assembly composed of a 
line-size, approved double check valve assembly, with a specific bypass water meter and a meter-
sized, approved double check valve assembly.  The meter shall register (in U.S. gallons) accurately 
for only very low rates of flow, and shall show a registration for all rates of flow.  This assembly 
shall only be used to protect against a non-health hazard (i.e., pollutant). 
      DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY.  An assembly composed of two independently 
acting, approved check valves, including tightly closing shut-off valves attached at each end of the 
assembly, and fitted with properly located tests cocks.  This assembly shall only be used to protect 
against a non-heath hazard (i.e., pollutant). 
      HEALTH AGENCY.  The North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources 
(NCDENR), Division of Health Services. 
      HEALTH HAZARD.  An actual or potential threat of contamination of a physical, hazardous 
or toxic nature to the public or consumer’s potable water system, to such a degree or intensity that 
there would be a danger to health. 
      INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS.  Any fluid or solution that may be chemically, biologically, or 
otherwise contaminated or polluted, in a form or concentration such as would constitute a health, 
or non-health hazard if introduced into a public or consumer potable water system.  Such fluids 
may include, but are not limited to: process waters; chemicals in fluid form; acids and alkalis; oils, 
gases; and the like. 
      ISOLATION. The act of confining a localized hazard within a consumer’s water system by 
installing approved backflow prevention assemblies. 
Disclaimer:  The Town may make recommendations, upon facility inspection, as to the use of 
isolation devices/assemblies, but does not assume or have any responsibility whatsoever for such 
installations. 
      NON-HEALTH HAZARD.  An actual or potential threat to the quality of the public or the 
consumer’s potable water system.  A NON-HEALTH HAZARD is one that, if introduced into the 
public water supply system, could be a nuisance to water customers, but would not adversely affect 
human health. 
NON-REGULATED WATER SUPPLY. A water supply that has not been permitted as a 
regulated system for human consumption by the North Carolina Department of Environment, 
Health, and Natural Resources. 
      POINT OF DELIVERY.  Shall generally be at the property line of the customer, adjacent to 
the public street where the Town’s mains are located, or at a point on the customer’s property 
where the meter is located.  The customer shall be responsible for all water piping and control 
devices located on the customer’s side of the point of delivery. 
      POLLUTION.  An impairment of the quality of the water to a degree that does not create an 
actual hazard to the public health, but that does adversely and unreasonably affect the aesthetic 
qualities of such waters for domestic use. 
      POLLUTION HAZARD.  An actual or potential threat to the quality or the potability of the 
public or the consumer’s potable water system, but that would not constitute a health or a system 
hazard, as defined herein.  The maximum degree or intensity of pollution to which the potable 
water system could be graded under this definition would cause a nuisance or be aesthetically 
objectionable, or could cause minor damage to the system or its appurtenances. 
      POTABLE WATER. Water from any source, which has been investigated by the North 
Carolina Department of Environment, Health, and Natural Resources (Division of Health 
Services), and has been approved for human consumption. 
      PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER.  An assembly containing an independently operating, 
internally loaded check valve, and an independently operating, loaded air inlet valve located on 
the discharge side of the check valve.  The assembly is to be equipped with properly located test 
cocks and tightly closing shut-off valves attached at each end of the assembly.  This assembly is 
designed to protect against a health hazard (i.e., contaminant) under a back-siphonage condition 
only. 
      PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM.  Any publicly or privately owned water system, 
operated as a public utility, under a current North Carolina Department of Environment, Health, 
and Natural Resources permit, to supply water for public consumption or use.  This system will 
include all sources, facilities, and appurtenances between the source and the point of delivery, such 
as valves, pumps, pipe, conduits, tanks, receptacles, fixtures, equipment, and appurtenances used 
to produce, convey, treat, or store potable water for public consumption or use. 
      REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY.  An 
assembly containing within its structure a minimum of two independently acting, approved check 
valves, together with a hydraulically operating, mechanically independent, pressure differential 
relief valve located between the check valves, and at the same time below the first check 
valve.  The first check valve reduces the supply pressure at a predetermined amount so that, during 
normal flow and at cessation of normal flow, the pressure between the checks shall be less than 
the supply pressure.  In case of leakage of either check valve, the pressure differential relief valve, 
by discharge to atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure between the checks less than 
the supply pressure.  The unit shall include tightly closing shut-off valves located at each end of 
the assembly, and each assembly shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.  The assembly is 
designed to protect against a health hazard (i.e., contaminant). 
      REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE DETECTOR ASSEMBLY.  A specially designed 
assembly composed of a line-size, approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention 
assembly, with a specific bypass water meter and a meter-sized, approved reduced pressure 
principle backflow prevention assembly.  The meter shall register (in U.S. gallons) accurately for 
only very low rates of flow, and shall show a registration for all rates of flow.  This assembly shall 
be used to protect against a health hazard (i.e., contaminant). 
      SERVICE CONNECTIONS.  The terminal end of a service connection from the public 
potable water system, i.e., where the Town loses jurisdiction and sanitary control over the water 
at its point of delivery to the consumer’s water system. 
      UNAPPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY.  An assembly that has been 
investigated by the Town and has been determined to be unacceptable for installation within the 
Town’s water system.  Consideration for disapproval and removal from the “approved list” shall 
be based upon, but not limited to, the following criteria: 
         (a)   Poor performance standards (i.e., significant failure rate); 
         (b)   Lack of or unavailability of repair parts; and/or, 
         (c)   Poor service or response from the assembly’s factory representative(s). 
            USED WATER.  Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public water system to a 
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the point of delivery and is no longer under 
the control of the water purveyor. 
      WATER PURVEYOR.  The owner or operator of a public potable water system providing an 
approved water supply to the public. 
   (C)   Objectives. 
      (1)   General.  This section is enacted to accomplish the following objectives: 
         (a)   To protect the public potable water supply of the Town against actual or potential 
contamination by isolating within the consumer’s water system, contaminants or pollutants that 
could, under adverse conditions, backflow through uncontrolled cross connections into the public 
water system. 
         (b)   To eliminate or control existing cross connections, actual or potential, between the 
consumer’s potable water system(s) and non-potable or industrial piping system(s). 
         (c)   To provide a continuing inspection program of cross connection control that will 
systematically and effectively control all actual or potential cross connections that may be installed 
in the future. 
      (2)   Water purveyor. 
         (a)   The Town or other such water purveyor shall make every reasonable effort to ensure a 
safe water supply, from the source throughout the public water distribution system, including the 
service connection, to the point of delivery to the consumer’s water connection.  In addition, the 
Town or other such water purveyor shall insure that the proper precautions are taken to protect the 
public potable water system.  The Town or other such water purveyor shall determine the degree 
of hazard or potential hazard to the public potable water system; determine the degree of protection 
required; and ensure proper containment protection through an ongoing inspection program. 
         (b)   When it is determined that a backflow prevention assembly is required for the protection 
of the public water system, the Town shall require the consumer, at the consumer’s expense, to 
install an approved backflow prevention assembly at each service connection; to test immediately 
upon installation and thereafter, at least annually; to properly repair and maintain such assembly 
or assemblies, and to keep adequate records of each test and subsequent maintenance and repair, 
including records of used materials and/or replacement parts. 
      (3)   Plumbing inspectors. The Inspection Department of the Town shall review building plans 
and inspect plumbing as it is installed, and shall prevent cross connections from being designed 
and built into the plumbing systems of buildings.  When the building plans suggest or detect the 
potential for cross connections being made within the plumbing system, the plumbing inspector 
shall require that such cross connections be either eliminated or provided with backflow prevention 
equipment approved by the North Carolina Building Code. 
      (4)   Consumer. 
         (a)   The consumer is responsible for preventing pollutants and contaminates from entering 
their private potable water system(s) or the public water system.  The consumer’s responsibility 
starts at the point of delivery from the public potable water system, and includes all of the 
consumer's water system(s). 
         (b)   The consumer, at their own expense, shall install, operate, test, and maintain approved 
backflow prevention assemblies at the point of delivery. 
         (c)   The consumer shall maintain, for 3 years, records of tests and repairs made to backflow 
prevention assemblies at the point of delivery.  The consumer shall provide the Town’s Utilities 
Division with copies of such records.  The records shall be a method approved by the Town, and 
shall list materials or replacement parts used.  The types of records shall be determined by the 
Town and may be paper, digital or online forms. 
         (d)   If a backflow device changes ownership, the new owner is immediately subject to all 
requirements of this section. 
         (e)   The consumer shall re-test any backflow assembly following any repair, overhaul, re-
piping or relocation of an assembly, to ensure that it is in good operating condition and will prevent 
backflow. 
         (f)   Tests, maintenance and repairs of backflow prevention assemblies shall be made by a 
North Carolina-certified backflow prevention assembly tester. 
         (g)   The consumer must immediately notify the Town’s Utilities Superintendent if the 
consumer’s potable water system is contaminated or polluted.  The consumer must immediately 
notify the Town’s Utilities Superintendent if the consumer has reason to believe that a backflow 
has occurred from the consumer’s private water system into the public water system.  The 
consumer must also notify the Town’s Utilities Superintendent of any new cross connections to 
their private system that may or may not require changing the present backflow prevention 
assembly at the point of delivery. 
      (5)   Certified backflow prevention assembly tester. 
         (a)   At the point of delivery, a backflow prevention assembly tester shall perform accurate 
field tests, repairs or overhauling of backflow prevention assemblies, using all the necessary tools, 
gauges, and other equipment to properly test, repair, and maintain backflow prevention assemblies. 
         (b)   The tester shall provide reports of tests, repairs, and overhauls done at the point of 
delivery to the Town’s Utilities division, on forms approved by the Town.  The tester shall 
maintain all such records on work done at the point of delivery for a minimum of 3 years. 
         (c)   The tester shall use original manufactured parts in the repair or replacement of parts in 
a backflow prevention assembly.  The tester shall not change the design, material, or the 
operational characteristics of an assembly during repair or maintenance. 
         (d)   All certified backflow prevention assembly testers must employ test equipment, which 
has been evaluated and approved by: 
            1.   The Association of Sanitary Engineers (ASSE); 
            2.   The American Water Works Association (AWWA); or 
            3.   The Foundation for Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic Research of the 
University of Southern California (HR-USC). 
         (e)   All test equipment shall be checked for accuracy as suggested by the manufacturer’s 
recommendation, but not less than annually, calibrated if necessary, and verified by the Town’s 
Utilities division or designee. 
         (f)   All certified testers shall maintain current State certification through an approved 
backflow prevention certification program. 
   (D)   Right of entry. 
      (1)   It is unlawful to interfere with Town representatives when sampling and testing water, 
performing inspections, and/or making observations of all piping systems connected to the public 
water supply, including testing backflow devices. 
      (2)   Where a user has security measures in force that would require proper identification and 
a clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with the 
security guards so that, upon presentation of suitable identification, Town personnel will be 
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their specific responsibilities. 
      (3)   Upon request, the consumer shall furnish to the Town any pertinent information regarding 
the water supply system on such property where cross connections and backflow are deemed 
possible. 
   (E)   Elimination of cross connections. 
      (1)   The owner, agent, occupant, or tenant shall properly protect or disconnect existing, 
unprotected cross connections to the public water system, within the time limit established by the 
Town. 
      (2)   All existing backflow prevention assemblies installed on metered water services (which 
were initially approved by the Town and have not been modified) shall be allowed to remain in 
the premises, as long as they are being properly maintained, tested, and repaired as required by 
this section.  If however, all hazards within the facility have not been properly isolated, or the 
existing assembly must be replaced (once it can no longer be repaired), or in the event the facility 
process or operations have changed, the consumer shall install an approved double check assembly 
or reduced pressure principle assembly as required by this section. 
      (3)   The user shall immediately disconnect cross connections with private wells or other 
auxiliary water supplies not approved by Moore County Environmental Health Department and 
the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources. 
      (4)   All facilities that pose a health hazard to the potable water system must install a 
containment assembly, in the form of a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly, 
within 60 days of notice by the Town. 
      (5)   Within 90 days, all industrial and commercial facilities not identified as a “health hazard” 
shall install a double check valve assembly as a minimum containment assembly. 
      (6)   When the Town determines that an imminent health hazard exists due to cross connection, 
water service shall be terminated, unless an air gap is immediately provided. 
      (7)   The consumer shall install on his or her private potable water system sufficient internal 
isolation backflow prevention assemblies as required by the North Carolina Building Code. 
      (8)   Water mains served but not maintained by the Town should be considered a cross 
connection.  The degree of protection at the point of delivery shall be based on degree of hazard, 
as determined by the Town. 
      (9)   When the Town’s Utilities Superintendent, or representative designated by the 
Superintendent, does not have sufficient access to every portion of a private water system (i.e., 
classified research and development facilities; federal government property) to allow a complete 
evaluation of the degree of hazard associated with such private water systems, an approved reduced 
pressure principle assembly shall be required as a minimum. 
      (10)   No person shall fill special use tanks or tankers containing pesticides, fertilizers, other 
toxic chemicals, or their residues, from the public water system, except at locations equipped with 
an air gap or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly properly 
installed on the public water supply. 
   (F)   Installation of assemblies. 
      (1)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance with the 
specifications furnished by the manufacturer, specifications furnished by the Town or the North 
Carolina Building Code. 
      (2)   All new construction plans and specifications, when required by the North Carolina 
Building Code and the North Carolina Division of Health Services (NCDENR), shall be made 
available to the Town for review and approval, and to determine the degree of hazard. 
      (3)   Ownership, testing, and maintenance of the assembly shall be the responsibility of the 
consumer/owner. 
      (4)   All double check valve assemblies must be installed in drainable pits wherever below 
ground installation is necessary. 
      (5)   Reduced pressure principle assemblies must be installed in a horizontal position, unless 
specifically manufactured for vertical installation, and in a location in which no portion of the 
assembly can become submerged in any substance under any circumstance.  Pit and/or below grade 
installations are prohibited. 
      (6)    With prior approval from the Town’s Utilities Division, double check valve assemblies 
may be installed in a vertical position, provided the flow of water is in an upward direction. 
      (7)   Upon adoption of this section, all unapproved backflow prevention devices and 
assemblies shall be replaced with an approved backflow prevention assembly.   
      (8)   The installer shall insure the backflow prevention assembly is working properly upon 
installation. 
      (9)   The installer shall provide the following information to the Town's Utilities 
Superintendent within 10 days after installation at the point of delivery of a reduced pressure 
principle backflow preventer, a double check valve assembly, a pressure vacuum breaker, a double 
check detector, or reduced pressure principle detector assembly: 
         (a)   Service address where assembly is located; 
         (b)   Owner (and address and phone number, if different from service address); 
         (c)   Description of assembly’s location; 
         (d)   Date of installation; 
         (e)   Installer (include name, address and phone number, plumbing company represented, 
plumber’s license number, and project permit number); 
         (f)   Type of assembly, size of assembly; 
         (g)   Manufacturer, model number, serial number; and 
         (h)   Test results/report. 
      (10)   For facilities that require an uninterrupted supply of water, and when it is not possible to 
provide water service from two separate metered sources, provisions shall be made for a “parallel 
installation” of backflow prevention assemblies by the consumer/owner. 
      (11)   The consumer shall, upon notification of noncompliance, become fully compliant with 
this section: 
         (a)   Within 60 calendar days (health hazard); 
         (b)   Within 90 calendar days (non-health hazard); 
         (c)   Immediately if Town officials determine an imminent health hazard. 
      (12)   All reduced pressure principle assemblies, double check valve assemblies, pressure 
vacuum breakers, double check detector assemblies, and reduced pressure detector assemblies 
shall be tested by a certified backflow prevention assembly tester within 10 days of installation. 
      (13)   Backflow preventer (BFP) installation relative to meter location:  (Ten Foot Rule) 
(a) All new BFP on domestic lines shall be installed within 10 feet of the domestic meter. 
 
(b) All new BFP on designated yard (irrigation) lines shall be installed within 10 feet of the 
yard meter. 
 
(c) All new BFP on fire suppression systems shall be installed within 10 feet of the meter. In 
some instances, where installation within 10 feet is not feasible due to facility design, 
exceptions may be approved by the Town’s ORC.  All exceptions will be reviewed by 
Town officials to make final determination. 
 
(d) Housing organizations that have a formal review board or committee may apply for a 
waiver, provided there is codified verbiage specific to BFP installation, modification or 
installation of systems requiring BFP, and member responsibilities within the 
organizational governing documentation.  Potential waivers will be reviewed by Town 
officials to make final determination. 
 
(e) Any BFP legally and properly installed on either a domestic or yard line prior to January 
1, 2017 that is located beyond 10 feet from the domestic or yard meter is exempted from 
the 10 foot rule requirement so long as the BFP remains functional and in compliance with 
the other standards of this ordinance. If the BFP is replaced for any reason, it shall comply 
with the 10 foot rules listed in this division. Potential waivers will be reviewed by Town 
officials to make final determination. 
   (G)   Testing and repair of assemblies. 
      (1)   A certified backflow prevention assembly tester shall test backflow prevention assemblies 
upon installation, and at a frequency established by the manufacturer’s recommendation, but no 
less than once annually. 
      (2)   A record of all testing and repairs is to be retained by the consumer. 
      (3)   Within 10 days after the completion of any testing and/or repair work, a copy of the test 
records for the point of delivery of the cross connection assembly must be provided to the Town’s 
Utilities Superintendent, or by other means of record keeping determined by the Town. 
      (4)   All retesting following repairs must be completed within specified time accordance with 
the degree of hazard.  In no case shall this time period exceed: 
         (a)   Health hazard facilities:  14 days; 
         (b)   Non-health hazard facilities:  21 days. 
      (5)   For facilities that require an uninterrupted supply of water during testing/repair, and when 
it is not possible to provide water from another protected metered source, the consumer/ owner 
shall make provisions for a “parallel installation” of backflow prevention assemblies. 
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any customer or certified tester to submit to the Town any record 
that is false or incomplete in any material respect.  It shall be unlawful for any customer or certified 
tester to fail to submit to the Town any record required by this section.  Such violations may result 
in any of the enforcement actions outlined in division (K), Enforcement. 
      (7)   A Town meter may be set at new service connections that require BFP installation.  Within 
90 days of meter installation, the customer shall achieve full compliance with this section, to 
include BFP installation, testing, and appropriate test data submission, in accordance with Town 
procedures. 
      (8)   Any new BFP, designated for lawn irrigation (yard), initially tested from December 1 
through March 31, shall have its annual test date moved forward 5 months.  For example, a new 
irrigation BFP initially tested December 20, 2018, that would normally be due December 20, 2019, 
shall have its next annual test due May 20, 2020. 
   (H)   Facilities requiring protection. 
      (1)   Approved backflow prevention assemblies/devices shall be installed in accordance with 
this section and the latest editions of the North Carolina Plumbing Code and North Carolina State 
Building Code, Town Unified Development Ordinance, or Town Code of Ordinances, whichever 
is more stringent. 
      (2)   All facilities and/or connections to the public water system, due to a potential for backflow 
of non-potable water into the public water supply system, shall install an approved backflow 
prevention assembly according to the degree of hazard present, unless exempted, pursuant to the 
divisions listed below:   
(a) One-family and two-family dwelling (single-family detached, single-family attached 
and duplexes) domestic services: exempt 
 
(b) All commercial and industrial domestic connections: reduced pressure principle 
assembly. 
 
(c) Fire suppression (sprinkler) systems: 
1. Health hazard:  reduced pressure principle (detector) assembly. 
2. Non-health hazard:  double check valve (detector) assembly. 
 
(d) Non-regulated water supply systems:  
1. reduced pressure principle assembly at primary connection point. 
2. double check valve assembly at primary connection point and all other 
individual connections within the unregulated water supply system shall be 
fitted with approved backflow prevention assembly consistent with division 
(H)(2).  
(e) Regulated Public Water Systems when permitted in accordance with Section .0300 of 
Chapter 15A of the North Carolina Administrative Code: exempt  
(f) Irrigation systems: reduced pressure principle assembly. 
      (3)   All assemblies and installations shall be subject to inspection and approval by the Town. 
   (I)   Connections with unapproved sources of supply. 
      (1)   It is unlawful to connect, or cause to be connected, any supply of water not approved by 
the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources to the water system 
supplied by the Town.  All connections must be in conformance with the backflow prevention 
requirements of this section. 
      (2)   In the event of contamination or pollution of a public or consumer potable water system, 
the consumer shall notify the Utilities Superintendent immediately, in order that appropriate 
measures may be taken to overcome and eliminate the contamination or pollution. 
   (J)   Enforcement. 
      (1)   The Town shall notify the owner, manager, supervisor, or person in charge of any 
installation found not to be in compliance with the provisions of this section, in writing, of the 
violation and shall order corrective action(s).  The time for compliance shall be in accordance with 
division (F), Installation of assemblies. 
      (2)   Failure to correct the violation within 30 days of notice shall result in a civil citation of 
$500 being issued by the Town, assessed to the owner.  The citation shall specify the nature of the 
violation and the provision(s) of this section, and notify the offender that the civil penalty for the 
violation is as set forth below and is to be paid to the Town at 180 SW Broad Street, Southern 
Pines, NC 28387, within 30 days.  If the penalty prescribed herein is not paid within the time 
allowed, the Town may initiate a civil action in the nature of a debt, and recover the sums set forth 
below plus the cost of the action. 
      (3)   Any offender who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for the 
aforementioned notification shall be subject to a civil penalty of $1,000 per violation.  Each 
additional 30 days in which a violation of any provision of this section shall occur or continue shall 
constitute a separate and distinct offense resulting in an additional $1,000 penalty per violation. 
      (4)   Any failure to correct any violation within 90 of initial notification, including payment of 
outstanding penalties, may result in discontinuance of water service, including meter removal, 
until full compliance is achieved and verified by a Town designee. 
      (5)   The submission of falsified reports/ records may result in a civil penalty of $1,000 per 
violation assessed to the certified tester. 
         (a)   If a certified backflow prevention assembly tester submits falsified records to the Town, 
the Town shall take the necessary actions to disqualify the tester from testing backflow prevention 
assemblies within the potable water system for a time period not less than 1 year.  The tester will 
then be required to complete an approved backflow certification course to acquire a new 
certification to qualify to test backflow preventers connected to the Town’s potable water system. 
         (b)   Falsification made to records/ reports after becoming re-certified shall result in the 
permanent disqualification to test backflow prevention assemblies in the Town’s potable water 
system, in addition to a civil penalty (as stated herein). 
      (6)   Enforcement of this program shall be administered by the Director of Public Works, or 
designee. 
      (7)   Requests for extension of time shall be made in writing to the Director of Public Works, 
or designee. 
   (L)   Review.  This chapter is subject to annual review by the Town Utilities Superintendent, and 
changes shall be resubmitted for approval if necessary to fulfill State and Federal policy changes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective June 10, 2020. 
 
Adopted this 9th day of June, 2020. 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern 
Pines at its meeting of June 9, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Carol R. Haney, Mayor 
 
 
 
____________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
_______________________________ 
Douglas R. Gill, Town Attorney 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING 
THE BUILDING RENOVATION PROJECT BUDGET 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is for the purpose of renovating the Public Works Annex and the 
Garage Facility renovation. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital project within the 
terms of the budget contained herein. 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amounts are appropriated for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction - Garage 
 
$150,000 
 
 
 
 
Construction – Annex 
 
560,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Appropriation 
 
$710,000 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following additional revenue is anticipated to be available for this project: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Transfer In-  Financing Proceeds  
 
 
$710,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Revenues 
 
$710,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This amended ordinance becomes effective July 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its meeting 
of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk  
 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE 
AMENDING THE PARKING LOT PROJECT 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is to establish a fund for the purpose of the construction and 
renovation of parking lots owned by the Town. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital project within the 
terms of the budget contained herein. 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amounts are appropriated for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
$   45,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Appropriation 
 
$   45,000 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following additional revenue is anticipated to be available to complete this project: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Transfer In – General Fund 
 
 
 
$   45,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Revenues 
 
$   45,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This ordinance becomes effective July 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its 
meeting of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE  
STREAMBANK STABILIZATION CAPTIAL PROJECT FUND 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is to establish a fund for the purpose of stabilizing the erosion of the 
streambank behind the Fire and Police stations. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital project within the 
terms of the budget contained herein. 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amounts are appropriated for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
$ 75,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Appropriation 
 
$ 75,000 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following revenue is anticipated to be available to complete this project: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Transfer In – General Fund 
 
 
 
$ 75,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Revenues 
 
$ 75,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This ordinance becomes effective July 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its 
meeting of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE 
AMENDING THE SIDEWALKS – PHASE II PROJECT BUDGET 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is for the purpose of constructing additional and repairing and 
modifying existing sidewalks in the Town. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital project within the 
terms of the budget contained herein. 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amount is appropriated for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
$100,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Appropriation 
 
$100,000 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following additional revenue is anticipated to be available to complete this project: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Transfer In- General Fund 
 
 
 
$100,000 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Revenues 
 
$100,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This ordinance becomes effective July 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its 
meeting of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE 
WARRIOR WOODS LIFT STATION 
PROJECT BUDGET 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is to establish a fund for the purpose of upgrades to the lift station, 
which will increase capacity and meet expected future 
demand. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital project within the  
terms of the budget contained herein. 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amounts are appropriated for the 
project: 
 
Construction 
  $ 283,151 
 
Total Project Appropriation 
  $ 283,151 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following revenue is anticipated to be available to complete this project: 
 
Transfer In – Sewer Impact Fees 
$  55,300 
 
Transfer In – Sewer System Development Fees 
 
227,851 
 
Total Project Revenues 
$ 283,151 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This ordinance becomes effective July 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its 
meeting of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
 
 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE  
LIFT STATION UPGRADES CAPTIAL PROJECT FUND 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is to establish a fund for the purpose of upgrading area Town lift 
stations to increase capacity in the lift station’s sewer basins. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital project within the 
terms of the budget contained herein. 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amounts are appropriated for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
$ 530,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Appropriation 
 
$ 530,000 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following revenue is anticipated to be available to complete this project: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Transfer In-Utility Fund 
 
 
 
  $  530,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Revenues 
 
$ 530,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This ordinance becomes effective July 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its 
meeting of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE 
WATER TREATMENT PROCESS MODERNIZATION PROJECT FUND 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is to establish a fund for the purpose of modernizing equipment and 
processes at the Water Treatment Plant. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital project within the 
terms of the budget contained herein. 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amounts are appropriated for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
$ 517,900 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Appropriation 
 
$ 517,900 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following revenue is anticipated to be available to complete this project: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer In-CP Water Distribution 
 
 
 
$ 212,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer In-Utility Fund 
 
 
 
    305,900 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Revenues 
 
$ 517,900 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This ordinance becomes effective July 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its 
meeting of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE  
WATER & SEWER IMPROVEMENTS CAPITAL PROJECT FUND  
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is for the purpose of funding improvements to the water and sewer 
distribution and collection system. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital project within the 
terms of the budget contained herein. 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amount is appropriated for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer Out – Water Plant Modernization Fund 
 
$212,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Appropriation 
 
$212,000 
 
 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following appropriation is reduced for this project: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Construction - Water 
 
 
 
$212,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Appropriation Reduction 
 
$212,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This amended ordinance becomes effective July 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its meeting 
of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk  
 
 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE  
WATER & SEWER IMPROVEMENTS CAPITAL PROJECT FUND  
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is for the purpose of funding improvements to the water and sewer 
distribution and collection system. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital project within the 
terms of the budget contained herein. 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amounts are appropriated for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction – Sewer Collection System 
 
$535,000 
 
 
 
 
Construction – Water Distribution System 
 
161,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Appropriation 
 
$696,000 
 
 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following additional revenue is appropriated for this project: 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Transfer In Water– Utility Fund 
 
 
 
$125,000 
 
 
 
 
Transfer In Sewer– Utility Fund 
 
 
                125,000 
 
 
 
 
Transfer In – Sewer Impact Fees  
 
                410,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer In – East Morganton Waterline 
 
                  36,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Revenues 
 
$696,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This amended ordinance becomes effective July 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its meeting 
of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk  
 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE 
EAST MORGANTON ROAD WATER LINE REPLACEMENT PROJECT 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is to establish a fund for the purpose of replacing  an existing 6” water 
line with a 12” line along East Morganton Road. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital project within the 
terms of the budget contained herein. 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amounts are appropriated for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
$139,928 
 
 
 
 
Transfer to Water Improvement Fund 
       
36,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Appropriation 
 
$175,928 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following revenue is anticipated to be available to complete this project: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Transfer In – Water System Development Fees 
 
 
$175,928 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Revenues 
 
$175,928 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This ordinance becomes effective July 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its 
meeting of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE  
PENNSYLVANIA/PEEDEE ROAD WATERLINE REPLACEMENT PROJECT FUND 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is to establish a fund for the purpose of upgrading existing 10” 
waterline with a 16” transmission main. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital project within the 
terms of the budget contained herein. 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amounts are appropriated for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Design & Construction 
 
$ 118,843 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Appropriation 
 
$ 118,843 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following revenue is anticipated to be available to complete this project: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer In- System Development Fees – Water     
 
    $118,483 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Revenues 
 
$ 118,843 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This ordinance becomes effective July 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its 
meeting of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE  
SANITARY MODERNIZATION CAPTIAL PROJECT FUND 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is to establish a fund for the purpose to identify, investigate, 
rehabilitate and/or replace the Town’s sewer infrastructure. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital project within the 
terms of the budget contained herein. 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amounts are appropriated for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
$ 750,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Appropriation 
 
$ 750,000 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following revenue is anticipated to be available to complete this project: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer In-Utility Fund 
 
 
 
$ 750,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Revenues 
 
$ 750,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This ordinance becomes effective July 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its 
meeting of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M E M O R A N D U M 
 
 
          TO:    Town Council 
 
          Reagan Parsons, Town Manager 
 
     FROM:    Tess Brubaker - Speis, Finance Director 
 
      DATE:     June 3rd, 2020 
 
SUBJECT:    Closing of Capital Project Funds  
 
I am requesting the authorization to close four capital project funds, the Fire Sub-
Station, Public Access Road-Economic Development, Pool Park Plan and 
Downtown Park Funds after the May interest allocation is completed. 
 
The construction of the Fire Sub-Station is complete and all expenditures for the 
project have been processed and paid. 
 
The Public Access Road-Economic Development fund was established as part of 
a Community Development Block Grant to construct a portion of the public road 
through the Southern Pines Corporate Park.  The road is now complete, the 
grant closed out, and the remaining funds that represent sales tax 
reimbursements are no longer needed toward this specific project. 
 
The Pool Park Plan was established to renovate the existing Pool Park in the 
fiscal year 2012-2013.  All projects related to this fund have been completed.  All 
expenditures have been processed and paid. 
 
The Downtown Park Fund was established in fiscal year 2013-2014.  It was 
created to renovate and improve the downtown park.  Improvements completed 
through this fund include tennis court reconstruction, the park entrance 
enhancement and the picnic shelter and restroom construction.  All work on this 
project is completed.  
 
Please authorize the closing of the Fire Sub-Station, Public Access Road-
Economic Development, Pool Park Plan and Downtown Park capital project 
funds.  In addition, please authorize the transfer of unspent funds and interest 
from the funds to the General Capital Reserve fund.   
 
Thank you in advance for your consideration. 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE 
AMENDING THE PUBLIC ACCESS ROAD ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 
BUDGET 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is for the purpose of construction and improvements of Public 
Access Road Economic Development. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The following amount is reduced for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
$25,874 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Appropriation Reduction 
 
$25,874 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amount is appropriated for the project: 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer to Capital Project Fund – General Capital Reserve Fund  
 $27,590 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Appropriation 
 
$27,590 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following additional revenue is appropriated for this project: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Interest on Investments 
 
 
 
$  1,716 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Revenues 
 
$  1,716 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This amended ordinance becomes effective June 22, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its meeting 
of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk  
 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE 
AMENDING THE FIRE SUBSTATION PROJECT BUDGET 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is for the purpose of construction and improvements of Fire Sub 
Station. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The following amount is reduced for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
$ 184,119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Appropriation Reduction 
 
$ 184,119 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amount is appropriated for the project: 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer to Capital Project Fund – General Capital Reserve Fund  
$ 276,528 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Appropriation 
 
$ 276,528 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following additional revenue is appropriated for this project: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Interest on Investments 
 
 
 
$  92,409 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Revenues 
 
$  92,409 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This amended ordinance becomes effective June 22, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its meeting 
of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk  
 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE 
AMENDING THE POOL PARK PROJECT BUDGET 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is for the purpose of construction and improvements of Pool Park. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The following amount is reduced for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
$7,773 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Appropriation Reduction 
 
$7,773 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amount is appropriated for the project: 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer to Capital Project Fund – General Capital Reserve Fund  
 $12,740 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Appropriation 
 
$12,740 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following additional revenue is appropriated for this project: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Interest on Investments 
 
 
 
$  4,967 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Revenues 
 
$  4,967 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This amended ordinance becomes effective June 22, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its meeting 
of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk  
 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE 
AMENDING THE DOWNTOWN PARK PROJECT BUDGET 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project budget is hereby amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is for the purpose of construction and improvements of Downtown 
Park. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The following amount is reduced for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
$2,949 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Project Appropriation Reduction 
 
$2,949 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional amount is appropriated for the project: 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer to Capital Project Fund – General Capital Reserve Fund  
$6,748 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Appropriation 
 
$6,748 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following additional revenue is appropriated for this project: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Interest on Investments 
 
 
 
$  3,799 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Revenues 
 
$  3,799 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This amended ordinance becomes effective June 22, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its meeting 
of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk  
 
 
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE 
AMENDING THE GENERAL CAPITAL RESERVE FUND 
 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Town of Southern Pines Town Council, that pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 
159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital reserve project budget is hereby 
amended: 
 
 
Section 1: 
The project authorized is for the purpose of acquisition, renovation and/or construction of 
major capital facilities and improvements to the Town’s infrastructure. 
 
 
Section 2: 
The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital reserve fund within 
the terms of the budget contained herein. 
 
 
Section 3: 
The following additional appropriation for the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer to Capital Project Funds 
 
$ 323,606 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Appropriation 
 
$ 323,606 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4: 
The following other financing sources are appropriated for this project: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer from Capital Project Fund – Downtown Park 
 
$      6,748 
 
 
 
Transfer from Capital Project Fund – Pool Park  
 
 
12,740 
 
 
 
Transfer from Capital Project Fund – Public Access Road 
 
   27,590 
 
 
 
Transfer from Capital Project Fund – Fire Sub Station 
 
276,528 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Additional Project Revenues 
 
$ 323,606 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5: 
Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing 
Board, and to the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project. 
 
 
Section 6: 
This amended ordinance becomes effective June 22, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I certify that this ordinance was adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Southern Pines at its meeting 
of June 22, 2020 as shown in the minutes of the Town Council for that date. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________________________ 
Peggy K. Smith, Town Clerk  
 
 
 
 
