 
 
 
 
SPECIAL MEETING OF THE NORTHERN NYE COUNTY HOSPITAL DISTRICT BOARD OF 
TRUSTEES 
101 Radar Road, Tonopah, NV 89049 
June 11, 2020 
1:00PM 
 
Pursuant to the State of Nevada Governor’s Guidance for Phase 2 Reopening of the Nevada United: Roadmap 
to Recovery, The Northern Nye County Hospital District Board of Trustees will hold public meetings with no 
more than 50 people in total while continuing to follow social distancing and the Roadmap to Recovery to slow 
the spread of COVID-19. Board members, staff, members of the public and members of the press are included 
in the 50-person count. Public attendance will be on a first come, first served basis. Temperature screenings will 
be conducted prior to entering the meeting.   
The teleconference is also viewable at www.NyeCounty.net 
 
Pursuant to NRS 241.020, the Agenda for the Board Meeting has been posted at the following locations. Tonopah Convention 
Center, 301 Brougher Avenue, Tonopah, NV; U.S. Post Office, 201 Erie Main St., Tonopah, NV; Commissioners' Meeting 
Room, 101 Radar Road, Tonopah, NV; District Court, 101 Radar Road, Tonopah, NV 
Additional Posting Locations: Gabbs Townhall, 503 Brucite St., Gabbs, NV; Round Mountain Community Center, 650 Civic 
Dr., Round Mountain, NV 
Support documentation for the items on the agenda, provided to the Board of Trustees is available to members of the public at 
the County Manager’s Office (101 Radar Road, Tonopah, Nevada & 2100 E. Walt Williams Drive, Pahrump, Nevada) and on 
the County’s website, www.nyecounty.net or by emailing the Northern Nye County Hospital District’s Administrative 
Secretary at nnchd.as@gmail.com. 
The Board of Trustees may take a short break every 1 ½ hours. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: All items are approximate except for bid openings, public hearings, and any other items agendized at a specific 
time. Items on the agenda without a time designation may be taken out of order. The Board may combine two or more 
agenda items for consideration. The Board may remove an item from the agenda or delay discussion relating to an item on 
the agenda at any time. Items on the agenda without a time designation may not necessarily be considered in the order in 
which they appear on the agenda.  NOTICE: It is anticipated that the items of business before the Board of Trustees on June 
11, 2020 will be fully completed on that date. However, should item(s) not be completed, it is possible item(s) could be carried 
over and be heard before the Board of Trustees beginning at 8:30 a.m. on the next day. 
Public Comment during the Board Meeting on June 11, 2020 will be for all matters off the agenda, and be limited to three 
minutes per person. Additionally, public comment of three minutes per person may be heard during individual action items. 
The Board reserves the right to reduce the time or limit the total time allowed for public comment. The Board may prohibit 
comment if the content of the comments is a topic that is not relevant to, or within the authority of, the Board, or if the 
content of the comments is willfully disruptive of the meeting by being irrelevant, repetitious, slanderous, offensive, 
inflammatory, irrational or amounting to personal attacks or interfering with the rights of other speakers. Persons are 
invited to submit comments in writing on the agenda items and/or attend and make comment on that item at the Board 
meeting. 
 
 
NORTHERN NYE COUNTY HOSPITAL DISTRICT BOARD OF TRUSTEES AGENDA 
 
ITEM # 
SUBJECT                                                                                                       June 11, 2020 
 
 
Special Note: Any member of the public who is disabled and requires accommodation or assistance at this meeting is requested to notify the 
Northern Nye County Hospital District’s Administrative Secretary at nnchd.as@gmail.com or call (775) 482-8191 prior to the meeting. 
1. Pledge of Allegiance 
2. GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT (Three-minute time limit per person.) Action will not be 
taken on the matters considered during this period until specifically included on an agenda as 
an action item (first). 
3. Approval of the Agenda for June 11, 2020. 
4. Announcements (first) 
5. For Possible Action – Emergency Items 
6. Trustees’/Liaison Comments (This item limited topics/issues proposed for future 
workshops/agendas) 
 
     GENERAL BUSINESS 
 
7. 
For Possible Action – 1) Presentation of preliminary information collected, recommendations made and 
direction needed from the Board to complete the Facilities Condition Assessment by Korte Company 
Representative Steve Daily; and 2) discussion and deliberation on the proposed plan of redevelopment and use 
of the medical campus located at 825 S. Main Street in Tonopah, Nevada resulting in a Preliminary 
Development Plan to be used by Korte Company in the completion of the Facility Conditions Assessment.   
8. 
For Possible Action – 1) Discussion and deliberation to approve, amend and approve or deny change to 
Administrative Secretary job compensation package to increase weekly labor hours cap from 32 (current) to 40 
hours; and 2) discussion and deliberation of changes to Administrative Secretary job description. 
9. GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT (second) 
10. ANNOUNCEMENTS (second) 
11. ADJOURN 
 
Pursuant to the State of Nevada Governor’s Guidance for Phase 2 Reopening of the Nevada United: 
Roadmap to Recovery, The Northern Nye County Hospital District Board of Trustees will hold public 
meetings with no more than 50 people in total while continuing to follow social distancing and the 
Roadmap to Recovery to slow the spread of COVID-19. Board members, staff, members of the public 
and members of the press are included in the 50-person count. Public attendance will be on a first 
come, first served basis. Temperature screenings will be conducted prior to entering the meeting. 
The teleconference is also viewable at www.NyeCounty.net 
 
