City o 
inera 
e Is 
P 0 Box 460, Mineral Wells, Texas 76068 
Telephone: 940.328. 
7700 Fax: 940.328. 
7704 
MINERAL WELLS ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 
NOTICE OF MEETING 
NOTICE is hereby given that a regular meeting of 
the Board of 
Directors of 
the Mineral 
Wells Economic Development Corporation will be held on Wednesday, June 10, 2020, at 
Noon, via Zoom videoconference at: 
https://us02web.zoom. us/j/8 l 5898l7895?pwd=Q1BNeUk5RlBHbjJPTnhwdU5yMW9tZz09; 
or via teleconference at: (346) 248-7799; Meeting ID: 815 8981 7895; Password: 411663; 
open to the public, to consider, discuss, and adopt such orders, resolutions or motions, and 
take direct actions as may be necessary, convenient, or desirable, with respect to the 
following matters: 
1. Call to Order and Establish Quorum 
2. Public Comment (SEE MODIFIED RULES BELOW) 
3. Approve Minutes of 
the Organizational Meeting held on May 8, 2020 
4. Receive and Consider approval of Small Business Loan Program and make 
Recommendations to City Council 
5. Conduct Board Workshop regarding roles and responsibilities and available economic 
development tools 
6. EXECUTIVE SESSION -In accordance with Texas Government Code, Section 
551.001, et seq., the Economic Development Corporation Board (EDC) will recess into 
Executive Session (closed meeting) to discuss the following: 
a. §551.087: To discuss or deliberate regarding commercial or financial information 
that the EDC has received from a business prospect that the EDC seeks to have 
locate, stay, or expand in or near the territory of 
the City of Mineral Wells and 
with which the EDC is conducting economic development negotiations; and/or to 
deliberate the offer of 
a financial or other incentive to the business prospect: (i) 
Project Red; (ii) Project Dragonfly; (iii) Project Glue, and (iv) Project LAB. 
7. RECONVENE INTO OPEN SESSION - In accordance with Texas Government Code, 
Chapter 5 
51, the Board will reconvene into Regular Session to consider action, if 
any, on 
matters discussed in Executive Session. 
8. Adjourn 
Page I of3 
*As a result of 
the current COVID-19 virus epidemic emergency, the convening at one 
location of 
a quorum of 
the Board is difficult or impossible. Therefore, the Board will 
conduct this meeting by videoconference rather than by physical quorum pursuant to Texas 
Government Code Sec. 551.125 and guidance of 
the Governor of 
the State of 
Texas. 
Members of 
the public are entitled to participate and address the Board during the 
videoconference meeting. In all respects, this meeting will be open to the public and 
compliant with applicable law and guidance of 
the Governor of 
the State of 
Texas. An 
electronic copy of 
the agenda packet (which consists of 
the regular reports presented to the 
Board by its consultants) can be found at: www.mineralwellstx.gov 
If 
during the course of 
the meeting covered by this notice, the Board should determine that a 
closed or executive meeting or session of 
the Board or a consultation with the attorney for the 
EDC should be held or is required, then such closed or executive meeting or session or 
consultation with attorney as authorized by the Texas Open Meetings Act, Texas 
Government Code § 551 .001 et. seq., will be held by the Board at the date, hour and place 
given in this notice as the Board may conveniently meet in such closed or executive meeting 
or session or consult with the attorney for the EDC concerning any and all subjects and for 
any and all purposes permitted by the Act, including, but not limited to, the following 
sections and purposes: § 551 .071 - Private consultation with the attorney for the EDC on any 
item listed on the agenda; § 551 .072 - Discussing purchase, exchange, lease or value of real 
prope1iy; or §551 .087 - Discussing economic development negotiations 
PUBLIC COMMENT - SEE MODIFIED RULES BELOW 
Citizens will have an opportunity to address the Board concerning an issue of 
community 
interest that is not on the agenda but related to the EDC. Public comments are limited to three 
(3) minutes per speaker, unless the speaker requires the assistance of 
a translator, in which 
case the speaker is limited to six (6) minutes, in accordance with applicable law. DUE TO 
THE SUSPENDED PORTIONS OF THE TEXAS OPEN MEETINGS ACT, to address the 
Board, each speaker must complete a Speaker Form and provide it to the City Clerk 
electronically by 12:00 P.M. on June 9, 2020. The speaker forms will be read aloud to the 
Board. Comments shall address the Board with civility that is conducive to appropriate 
public discussion. Comments can address only the Board and not individual city officials or 
employees. Per the Texas Open Meetings Act, the Board is not permitted to take action on or 
discuss any item not listed on the agenda. The Board may: (1) make a statement of 
fact 
regarding the item; (2) make a recitation of 
existing policy regarding the item; or (3) propose 
the item be placed on a future agenda, in accordance with the Board procedures. The same 
form that is used for Council meetings may be used. 
Citizens wishing to speak on a particular agenda item must notify the City Clerk 
electronically by 12:00 P.M. on June 9, 2020. An electronic public comment form is 
available on the City's website at mineralwellstx.gov and will be sent to the City Clerk from 
the site. The same form that is used for Council meetings may be used. 
Page 2 of3 
Notes: Disabled persons requiring special assistance are requested to notify the City of 
Mineral Wells 24 hours in advance of 
the meeting by calling the City Clerk's office at 
940.328. 7702 
State of 
Texas 
§ 
City of 
Mineral Wells 
§ 
I hereby certify that notice of this meeting of the Mineral Wells Economic Development Corporation Board of 
Directors was posted by 5:00 o'clock pm on the 5th day of 
June, 2020. 
GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND SEAL OF OFFICE this sth day of 
June, 2020. 
---
Page 3 of3 
