1 
ZPC Meeting Agenda 
Notice is hereby given of a regular meeting of the Zoning and Planning Commission to be held via 
teleconference on Thursday, June 11, 2020 beginning at 6:15 p.m. in the Municipal Building located at 
3800 University Blvd., West University Place, Texas. 
Due to the COVID 19 Disaster and CDC’S recommendation regarding social distancing measures, the public 
will not be allowed to by physically present at this meeting. Zoning and Planning Commission will be 
meeting via teleconference and will be audible to members of the public and allow for two-way 
communications for those desiring to participate. To attend the meeting via telephonic means, please use the 
following 
toll-free 
number: 
1-844-648-1102, 
Meeting 
ID: 
567-704-580 
or 
follow 
link 
to 
https://www.join.me/westumeeting 
Any person interested in speaking on any item on the agenda must submit his/her request via email to the 
Building Official at cchew@westutx.gov.  The request must include the speaker’s name, address, the phone 
number that will be for the call (in order to identify you) and the agenda item number and must be received 
prior to the posted time of the meeting. 
The agenda packet is accessible to the public on the City’s website. After the meeting, a recording of this 
meeting will be made available to the public. 
Note: The Commission reserves the right to convene in a closed session for any agenda item if the 
need arises pursuant to authorization by Title 5, Chapter 551, of the Texas Government Code 
Call to Order 
1.
Notices, Rules, Etc.  Matters relating to notices, introductions, rules, meeting procedures and
updates.
2.
Public Comments.
This is an opportunity for citizens to speak relating to agenda items.  The speaker can either
speak at this time or defer his/her comments until such time the item is discussed. Speakers are
advised that comments cannot be received on matters which are the subject of a public hearing.
Public comments must be kept relevant to the subject before the Board. The presiding officer
shall rule on the relevance of comments. Persons making irrelevant, personal, impertinent, or
slanderous remarks may be barred by the presiding officer from further comment before the
Board during the meeting. Speakers must limit their presentations to three minutes each.
3.
Lighting Regulations.  Matters related to lighting regulations for properties in the City.
4.
Noise Regulations.  Matters related to the general noise regulations regarding equipment,
loudspeakers, construction activities, quiet hours, etc.
5.
Minutes.  Matters regarding approval of minutes from May 14, 2020.
ADJOURN 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, if you plan to attend this public meeting and you have 
a disability that requires special arrangements, please contact the person that signs this below at least 24 
hours prior to the meeting so that reasonable accommodations can be made to assist in your participation in 
the meeting.  The Municipal Building is wheel chair accessible from the west entrance and specially marked 
parking spaces are available in the southwest parking area.  Special seating will be provided in the Meeting 
Chambers.  
2 
I certify that the attached notice and agenda of items to be considered by the West University Place Zoning 
and Planning Commission on June 11, 2020 was posted on the Municipal Building bulletin board on or before 
June 8, 2020 at 6:15 o’clock p.m. 
Clay Chew 
Clay Chew, Building Official, cchew@westutx.gov, 713-662-5830 
Agenda Item #3
Page 1 of 2 
City of West University Place 
Planning and Zoning Commission Meeting 
DATE: June 11, 2020 
Agenda Topic: Outdoor Lighting Ordinance 
SUMMARY: The proposed Outdoor Lighting Ordinance was amended based on the comments from 
the May 14 2020 Zoning and Planning Commission Meeting and the May 18 2020 City Council 
Workshop. This Ordinance, if adopted, will allow enforcement of the provisions for lighting glare, 
within the City, without the utilization of a light meter. 
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LIGHTING AMENDMENTS: 
1. Glare definition: Glare has been properly defined in a way that is understandable and
enforceable. This definition of glare is from the Illuminating Engineering Society of North
America.
“Glare means the sensation produced by luminances within the visual field that are
sufficiently greater than the luminance to which the eyes are adapted to cause annoyance,
discomfort, or loss in visual performance or visibility.”
2. Outdoor Lighting definition: The definition of outdoor lighting has been added.
“Outdoor Lighting means lighting equipment installed within the property line and outside
the building envelope, whether attached to poles, building structures, the earth, or any other
location, and any associated lighting control equipment.”
3. City of West University Light: The City of West University is exempted from the Outdoor
Lighting Ordinance.
4. Christmas and Holiday Lighting: The holiday lighting definitions were modified to mention
LED lighting and allow for an exemption from the holiday projectors.
“Seasonal decorations using typical, unshielded, low-wattage, incandescent lamps or light- 
emitting diodes (LED) or holiday light projectors shall be permitted from November 10th
through January 30th.”
5. Existing Lighting and this proposed ordinance: If existing lighting is not violation of this
article, meaning that it does not create glare onto other properties, then it conforms to this
Ordinance. As with most Ordinances, it is complaint-based and will have to receive a code
enforcement complaint. Often, these cases are resolved by modifying the direction of the
lighting.
6. Security Lighting: Security lighting has been added as an exemption to this Ordinance if it
Page 2 of 2 
City of West University Place 
Planning and Zoning Commission Meeting 
does not cause light glare onto adjacent properties. 
“Residential security lighting, such as motion activated flood lights are permissible under the 
following condition: lighting must be installed or shielded in a way that does not cause light glare 
onto other properties, in accordance with Section 54-217.” 
7. Photometric Requests: During the permitting process, the Building Official can request data
or information, such as a photometric study, to prove conformance to Section [A] 105.3 of the
International Building Code, and R105.3 of the International Residential Code.
Enforcement: The enforcement of this Ordinance is typically performed in this manner: 
1. Typical Enforcement of Complaints
a.
A complaint is received by the City of West University Place.
i. City staff is assigned case (such as the Building Official, Code Enforcement 
Officer, or Peace Officers).
1. Staff follows up with complaint.
a.
Photographs or evidence provided by affected.
b.
Site Visit.
2. Warning letter or notice sent to property owner of lighting glare.
a.
Lighting complaint is often resolved at this stage.
3. Citation Issued
a.
A maximum $500.00 fine per day, per violation.
4. Court
a.
Evidence is provided.
b.
Applicant may appeal and provide evidence.
c.
Fine may be reduced.
Staff Recommendation: Consideration for the proposed Lighting Ordinance. 
Attached: 
1) Proposed Lighting Ordinance
2) PowerPoint Violations versus not a Violation.
3) May 18, 2020 City Council Workshop Summary – Lighting Ordinance Excerpt
Chapter 54 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
 
Article VIII. Outdoor Lighting Regulations 
Sec. 54-215 – Purpose. 
 
The purpose of this article is to provide regulations for outdoor lighting that will minimize adverse 
offsite impacts of outdoor lighting such as light glare, and light trespass. 
 
Sec. 54-216 - Definitions. 
 
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the following 
meanings: 
 
Glare means the sensation produced by luminances within the visual field, that are sufficiently 
greater than the luminance to which the eyes are adapted to cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss in 
visual performance or visibility.  
 
Outdoor lighting means lighting equipment installed within the property line and outside the 
building envelope, whether attached to poles, building structures, the earth, or any other location, 
and any associated lighting control equipment.  
 
Sec. 54-217. – Violation Declared. 
 
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit to be energized, on property owned or 
under his or her possession or control, any outdoor lighting which projects a glare directly upon 
any lot, tract, parcel of land, or other private property other than that property upon which such 
outdoor lighting is situated. 
 
(b) The use of laser source light, searchlights, flashing and/or rotating lights or any similar high 
intensity light for outdoor advertising or entertainment, when projected above the horizontal, is 
prohibited, unless as authorized by this article.  
 
Sec. 54-218. – Enforcement. 
 
(a) Upon receipt of a complaint from any citizen, or upon the initiative of any employee of the City 
of West University Place, Texas, a compliance inspection shall be conducted by the City 
Building Official, code enforcement officers, peace officer, or other representatives designated 
by the City Manager. 
 
 
Sec. 54-219. – Exceptions. 
 
(a) The provisions of this article shall not apply to: 
 
1. Lighting operated for emergency lighting used by police, fire emergency, utility work 
personnel, or medical personnel, or at their direction. 
 
2. Any City-owned and operated lighting. 
 
3. Seasonal decorations using typical, unshielded, low-wattage, incandescent lamps or 
light-emitting diodes (LED) or holiday light projectors shall be permitted from November 
10th through January 30th.  
 
4. Lighting that illuminates the United States and State of Texas flags. All other outdoor 
lighted flags, such as, but not limited to decorative and commercial flags shall conform 
to these provisions. 
 
(b) Residential security lighting, such as motion activated flood lights are permissible under the 
following condition: lighting must be installed or shielded in a way that does not cause light 
glare onto other properties, in accordance with Section 54-217. 
 
 
Sec. 54-220. – Penalty 
Any person violating any provision of this article may be charged with a misdemeanor and if 
convicted, may be subject to a fine of not more than $500.00.  Each occurrence of any such violation 
of this article shall constitute a separate offense. Each day on which any such violation of this article 
occurs shall constitute a separate offense. 
Violation Examples
Image Sources: 1) https://www.gallinaswatershed.org/what-you-can-do/light-pollution.html
Not a violation
Image Sources: https://www.burkholderlandscape.com/outdoor-residential-lighting/ 2) 
https://www.topbulb.com/blog/glare-common-outdoor-lighting-design-flaw/
May 18, 2020 
City Council Workshop Summary: 
 
Lighting Ordinance Discussion: 
General approach of the ordinance: The basic approach is that you can’t shine a light onto your 
neighbor’s property. This proposed ordinance is written not to be a huge burden on residents 
while providing protection from the worst offenders.   
Removed references to “Light Trespass”: This reference was removed as it was previously only 
included for Residential Security Lighting, and has since been removed.  
Removed any references to “Outdoor Athletic Facility”: This ordinance was modified to remove 
all references to outdoor athletic facilities as this lighting is controlled under in the Parks and 
Recreation Chapter of the City’s Ordinances (Chapter 58).  
 
Council Feedback: 
Question 1: How is glare and different than light trespass?  
Answer: Glare is a species of light trespass, and there will be some light trespass on other 
residential properties. Glare is the most offensive as it shines the focal point of a light at a 
property.  
Question 2: How will this ordinance will be enforced?  
Answer: This ordinance is designed so that no light meter is required for enforcement of this 
Ordinance. A violation with glare will be easily identified as observed from the adjacent property.   
Question 3: The persons definition contains is broad enough to include corporations? 
Answer: Yes, the definition of person is broad and does include corporations.  
Question 4: Is there a standard definition for residential Security Lighting? 
Answer: There is no definition for residential security lighting provided, but it does provide 
motion activated lighting as an example. It can be argued that almost all lighting is security 
lighting.  
 
 
 
Agenda Item #4
Page 1 of 2 
City of West University Place 
Planning and Zoning Commission Meeting 
DATE: June 11, 2020 
Agenda Topic: Noise Ordinance Amendment 
SUMMARY: The proposed modifications to the noise ordinance have been amended based on the 
comments from the previous Zoning and Planning Commission Meetings, and the Council Workshop. 
This proposed ordinance has two options for consideration for the ZPC. 
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED REVISIONS: This is the summary of changes that occurred since 
the ZPC the last meeting: 
1. Staff has removed nuisance language from the code language, and has instead added “in
violation of this article” due to a recent Texas Supreme Court Case that requires injury for a
nuisance case (Crosstex North Texas Pipeline, LP v Gariner-2016).
2. Staff has recommended that the Zoning and Planning Commission consider allowing the 70
dB(A) level for leaf blowers, as it provides substantially more gas-powered options, while
still limiting the loudest leaf blowers.
TWO OPTIONS FOR CONSIDERATION: 
Option A: This option has two parts, the first part is a general lawn maintenance noise standard, and 
the second is a defined leaf blower noise limitation.  General lawn maintenance equipment has an 
85 dB(A) limitation at 25 feet, which will allow work to be performed but limit the loudest 
equipment. The noise heard from leaf blowers is the most complained lawn equipment noise. In 
this proposal, the regulation of leaf blowers limits the sound at either 65 dB(A) or 70 dB(A) 
measured at 50 feet. Upon additional research, staff recommends that the 70 dB(A) standard be 
adopted, as more gas blowers are permitted from residents and commercial companies (See Home 
Depot Survey). The goal of these provisions is to remove the loudest lawn equipment, while allowing 
the work to be performed. When there is equipment that can operate at less than the residential quiet 
hours limitation of 58 dB(A), then this equipment would be allowed during residential quiet hours.  
1.
Other lawn maintenance equipment is limited to a maximum of 85 dB(A)
measured at 25 feet: Similar to the regulation leaf blowers, a similar standard of 85
dB(A) at 25 feet is commonly utilized for compliance with sound ordinances and has
been recommended with this edition of the proposed Ordinance.
2.
Leaf blowers limited to 65 dB(A) or 70 dB(A) measured at 50 feet: There are
many resources for finding appropriate models leaf blowers for a dense residential
community such as West University Place. A certification sticker for leaf blowers in
compliance with the 65 dB(a) or 70 dB(a)standard is located on the equipment. This can
be easily utilized by staff to determine compliance with this proposed Ordinance.
Additionally, if a leaf blower does not have the certification sticker, the
manufacturers specifications can be shown to prove compliance with this subsection.
Page 2 of 2 
City of West University Place 
Planning and Zoning Commission Meeting 
a. This required could be adjusted to be 70 dB(A) at 50 feet, which would allow more
leaf blower models in the City. As technology improves, this noise level could be 
adjusted. At the 70 dB(A) level, roughly 62% of leaf blowers satisfy
this requirement that are for sale at the Pin Oaks Home Depot, and adjacent stores
(See attached Home Depot Survey).
Option B: The second option for consideration is to modify the quiet hours, and allow lawn 
maintenance with no noise limitation outside of residential quiet hours. This option is the easiest to 
enforce as there are scheduled times for when lawn maintenance can be performed. 
3. Proposed Residential Quiet Hours: This option will define the hours when many people
are sleeping or engaged in quiet activities at home, to be designated as follows:
i.
Any weekday (Monday through Friday, except holidays mentioned below) before
7:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m.
ii.
Any Saturday (except the holidays mentioned below) before 8:00 a.m. or after 5:00
p.m.
iii.
Any Sunday, New Year’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and whenever
corresponding Friday or Monday on which the City observes that holiday before
12:00 noon or after 5:00 p.m. 
iv. In order to work outside normal work hours, must be approved by the City
Manager or designee before any work outside of the normal hours is
commenced.
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED AMENDMENTS FOR BOTH OPTIONS: The summary of 
proposed amendments is presented with general updates and two options for regulating tools and 
equipment utilized for maintenance of the property. These proposed changes are outlined below. 
4. General noise measurements: This section has been modified to make sure that any sound
meter measurements are at the adjacent property, unless as stipulated in the ordinance under
Section 54-44. This adjacent property measure would not be utilized for lawn equipment, as
there is either a certification sticker or manufactures information that will have to be shown
or proved to confirm compliance.
5. Urgent Public Projects: This proposal eliminates the need for certified notice for urgent
public works projects. These types of projects are typically an emergency, and notice
requirement would make emergency repairs difficult. Public works projects that are planned
in the future will follow the City’s policies for notification of property owners.
Page 3 of 2 
City of West University Place 
Planning and Zoning Commission Meeting 
Sec. 54-42(b) Urgent public projects. It shall be an affirmative defense, in any 
prosecution under this article that the offending noise was deemed a necessary repair 
by the Public Works Director for a public need. 
Staff Recommendation: Consideration for the propose options for a revised noise ordinance. 
Attached: 
1) Proposed Noise Ordinance with both options
2) Proposed change in Quiet Hours
3) May 18, 2020 Workshop Summary for Noise Ordinance
4) Power Point with Option A Information
5) Home Depot Survey conducted on 6/6/2020
1 
 
ORDINANCE NO.   
 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WEST 
UNIVERSITY PLACE, TEXAS; AMENDING CHAPTER 54, NOISE, OF 
THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF WEST UNIVERSITY 
PLACE, TEXAS, TO REVISE IN ITS ENTIRETY THE CRITERIA FOR 
NOISE AS 
A NUISANCE WITHIN THE CITY AND CONTAINING 
FINDINGS AND PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE SUBJECT. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY 
OF WEST UNIVERSITY PLACE, TEXAS, THAT: 
 
Section 1. Chapter 54, Article III of the Code of Ordinances, of the City of West 
University Place, Texas is amended by the repeal of the existing Article III, and the 
adoption of a new Article III, to read as set out in Appendix A, attached hereto. All other 
portions of Chapter 54 of the Code of Ordinances not specifically amended hereby remain 
in full force and effect. 
 
Section 2. All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this Ordinance 
are repealed to the extent of the conflict only. 
 
Section 3. If any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or other part 
of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall ever be 
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, neither the 
remainder of this Ordinance, nor the application of such word, phrase, clause, sentence, 
paragraph, section or other part of this Ordinance to any other persons or circumstances, 
shall be affected thereby. 
 
Section 4.. The City Council officially finds, determines and declares that a 
sufficient written notice of the date, hour, place and subject of each meeting at which this 
Ordinance was discussed, considered or acted upon was given in the manner required 
by the Texas Open Meetings Act, as amended, and that each such meeting has been 
open to the public as required by law at all times during such discussion, consideration 
and action. The City Council ratifies, approves and confirms such notices and the contents 
and posting thereof. 
 
Section 5. This Ordinance takes effect immediately upon its passage and adoption 
on second reading. 
2 
 
PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED ON FIRST READING on the   
 
day of  
, 2020. 
 
Councilmembers Voting Aye: 
Councilmembers Voting No: 
Councilmembers Absent: 
 
PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED ON SECOND READING, AND 
SIGNED, on the  
day of  
, 2020. 
 
Councilmembers Voting Aye: 
Councilmembers Voting No: 
Councilmembers Absent: 
 
 
Attest:  
 
Signed:   
 
City Secretary (Seal) 
Mayor 
 
 
Recommended:   
 
City Manager 
 
 
Approved as to legal form:    
 
City Attorney 
3 
Appendix “A” 
Amend Chapter 54, Article II-Noise in its entirety by substituting the following provisions: 
ARTICLE II. - NOISE 
Sec. 54-39. - Unreasonable noise prohibited. 
Notwithstanding anything else in this Article, it is unlawful for any person to intentionally or 
knowingly make or create any noise of such volume, intensity, or duration as to disturb or annoy 
a reasonable person of normal sensitivity in the usual and expected enjoyment or the use of a 
dwelling. In determining whether a violation of this paragraph occurs, the following may be 
considered: 
(1) The level, frequency, or duration of the noise;
(2) The proximity of the noise to the dwelling;
(3) The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise occurs; and
(4) The time of the day or night the noise occurs.
Sec. 54-40.- General noise level limit. 
Except as provided in Section 54-41, it is unlawful for any person to make, assist in  making, 
permit, or continue making, cause to be made or continued, or permit the continuance of any 
sound at any location beyond the property lines of the property on which the sound is being 
generated that when measured exceeds the applicable dB(A) level listed below. for the property 
on which the sound is received.  The sound level shall be measured at the property line of the 
property on which the sound is generated. 
The general maximum limits for any noise, except for noises specifically listed in Section 54-41 
of this chapter, are as follows: 
(1) Residential property:
a. 58 dB(A) during residential quiet hours.
b. 65 dB(A) during all other times.
(2) Nonresidential property: 68 dB(A) at all times.
(3) All sound level measurements shall be made as provided in Section 54-44 of this article,
unless as otherwise stipulated in Section 54-41.
Sec. 54-41. - Enumeration of specific noises. 
(a.) The following noises, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing noises in violation 
of this article (this enumeration is neither exhaustive nor exclusive of other noises): 
(1)
The noise of any horn or signal device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other
vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching
apparently out of control; the same noise made while in motion, except as a danger
signal after, or as, brakes are being applied and deceleration of the vehicle is intended;
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound created by means of any such signal device; and
the sound of such device made for any unreasonable period of time.
4 
(2)
The sound of:
a.
Any vehicular or portable radio, phonograph, disc player, tape player or any musical
instrument that is plainly audible outdoors from a distance of 100 feet or more (or 50
feet or more during residential quiet hours); or
b.
Any loudspeaker or amplifier operated outdoors during residential quiet hours that
is plainly audible from a distance of 50 feet or more.
"Plainly audible" means any sound that can be detected by a person using his or her 
unaided hearing faculties. Example: If the sound source under investigation is a portable 
or personal vehicular sound amplification or reproduction device, the enforcement officer 
need not determine the title of a song, specific words, or the artist performing the song. 
The detection of the rhythmic base component of the music is sufficient to constitute a 
plainly audible sound. 
(3) The sound of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or
operated in such manner that it creates loud noises such as spinning or squealing tires,
grating, grinding, rattling or other noise exceeding 85 decibels.
(4) The sound of any mechanical equipment installed at a fixed location (Examples: fans,
compressors, condensers, pumps, generators, etc.), if:
a.
When the equipment is operating, noise from the equipment is discernable at a point
outside the boundaries of the site where it is installed, and noise at that point is
measured at a level of 70dB(A) or higher; and
b.
Immediately before or after operation of the equipment, noise at the same point is
measured at a level of 65dB(A) or lower.
All sound level measurements shall be made as provided in Section 54-443 of this article. 
(5) The sound of a discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any internal combustion
motor or engine, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent
loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(6) The sound of any mechanical device operated by compressed air, except pneumatic
drills, unless the noise thereby created is effectively muffled and reduced.
(7) The sound produced by the erection, excavation, construction, or demolition of any
building or structure, including the use of any necessary tools or equipment, conducted
outside residential quiet hours which activity produces a sound exceeding 85 dB(A) when
measured from the property line of the residential property where the sound is being
received. This decibel limit is not applicable when a current, valid permit has been
obtained for the activities named and the sounds are being produced outside of
residential quiet hours.
(8)
Any excessive noise made on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning or
court while the same is in session, or adjacent to any hospital at any time, which noise
unreasonably interferes with the working of any such institution, provided conspicuous
signs are displayed in such street indicating that the same is a school, hospital or court
street.
(9)
Any loud and excessive noise resulting from the loading or unloading of any vehicle or
container, or the opening or destruction of bales, boxes, crates or containers.
5 
(10) The sound of any bell, gong, whistle, siren, or other alarm or signaling device installed
at a fixed location which is reasonably calculated to disturb a person of ordinary
disposition if such person were in the vicinity thereof. Exceptions: This does not apply
to:
a.
An emergency alarm operated by the fire department or other governmental
agency; or
b.
An alarm system permitted and operated in compliance with applicable
regulations, including automatic shutoff rules; see, e.g. chapter 26.
c.
Any gong, bell or chime used in a religious observance or prayer.
(11) The sound of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device used to attract
attention to any performance, show or sale of merchandise.
(12) The sound made by loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or other vehicles.
Current proposal 
{ 
(13) The sound made by the use of tools or equipment, other than leaf blowers, for the
maintenance of outside areas that exceeds 85 dB(A) measured at twenty-five (25) feet,
outside residential quiet hours.
(14) The sound of any leaf blower operated in the City outside residential quiet hours that
exceeds sixty-five [(65) or (70)] dB(A) from a distance of fifty (50) feet utilizing the
American National Standard Institute Methodology (ANSI B175.2). Any leaf blower that
bears that certification shall be presumed to comply with any noise level limit of this
subsection provided it operates as the manufacturer designed. Any operator of a leaf
blower without this certification shall be prepared to provide verification from the
manufacturer confirming compliance with this subsection.
} 
Alternative proposal 
{ 
(13) The sound made by leafblowers, lawnmowers and other lawn maintenance equipment
when operated during residential quiet hours.
} 
(b.) In the event of any conflict between this section and Section 54-40 the provisions of this 
section shall control. 
Sec. 54-42. - Affirmative defenses. 
(a)
Request to cease. It shall be an affirmative defense in any prosecution under this article
that a request to cease causing the noise in question was given neither to the person charged
nor to any officer, agent, employee or representative of the person charged. All peace officers
and other city enforcement personnel are hereby authorized to request that persons cease
causing noises that are apparently in violation of this article. Nothing herein limits the right of
others to make such requests.
(b)
Urgent public projects. It shall be an affirmative defense, in any prosecution under this
article that the offending noise was deemed a necessary repair by the Public Works Director
for a public need.
6 
 
(1)  Necessary for a public project for which the public works director has deemed urgently 
needed. certified, in writing, that expedited completion is urgently needed and in the 
public interest; and 
(2) 
Made after 7:00 a.m. and before 9:00 p.m. 
(c)  Measured noise levels. It shall be an affirmative defense, in any prosecution under this 
article, that a measured noise level was actually produced by some person or thing other 
than that alleged to have caused the noise. 
(d)  Registered outdoor events. It shall be an affirmative defense, in any prosecution under this 
article, that the offending noise resulted from an outdoor concert or similar event that: 
(1) 
Was registered at least 48 hours in advance with the chief of police; 
(2)  Did not last more than four hours, of which no more than two hours were during 
residential quiet hours; and 
(3) 
Was otherwise conducted to avoid disturbance of persons within nearby dwellings. 
 
(e) Speech or expression. The affirmative defenses for speech or expression enumerated in 
V.T.C.A., Penal Code § 42.04 (prior order to move, disperse or remedy) shall also be 
available in any prosecutions for violations of this article. 
Sec. 54-43. - Injunction as additional remedy. 
As an additional remedy, the noise made by any activity, device, instrument, vehicle or 
machinery in violation of any provision hereof and which causes discomfort or annoyance to 
reasonable persons of normal sensitivity, or which endangers the comfort, repose, health or 
peace of residents in the area, shall be deemed, and is declared to be, in violation of this article 
and may be subject to abatement by a restraining order or injunction issued by a court of 
competent jurisdiction. 
Sec. 54-44. - Sound level measurements. 
Sound level measurements under this article shall be made in accordance with the following 
criteria: 
(1)  Measurements must be made with a type 1 or type 2 calibrated sound level meters 
using the A-weighting scale and the slow meter response as specified by the American 
National Standards Institute (ANSI S1.4-1984/85A). 
(2)  Noise levels shall be measured in decibels and A-weighted. The unit of measurement 
shall be designated a "dB(A)." 
(3) 
Meters shall be maintained in calibration and good working order. 
(4)  Calibrations shall be employed which meet ANSI S1.40-1984 prior to and immediately 
after every sampling of sound. 
(5)  Measurements recorded shall be taken so as to provide a proper representation of 
the 
sound being measured. 
(6)  The microphone of the meter shall be positioned so as not to create any unnatural 
enhancement or diminution of the measured sound. A windscreen for the microphone 
shall be used. 
(7) At the property line of the building site where the noise is being generated. 
(18) Residential quiet hours means those hours when many people are sleeping or engaged in quiet activities 
at home. They are hereby designated as follows: 
  
Any weekday (Monday through Friday, except the holidays mentioned 
below)*: 
Before 7:00 a.m. or 
after 87:00 p.m. 
 
 
Any Saturday (except the holidays mentioned below)*: 
Before 8:00 a.m. or 
after 85:00 p.m. 
 
 
Any Sunday, New Year's Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and 
whenever corresponding Friday or Monday on which the city observes 
that holiday*: 
Before 12:00 noon 
or after 85:00 p.m. 
 
 
* In order to work outside normal work hours, must be approved by the City Manager or his designee 
before any work outside of the normal hours is commenced. 
Noise Ordinance Discussion:
Regulation of Construction: Outside of quiet hours there are no noise limitations for permitted work, as 
a certain amount of noise is associated with construction. The board thought that construction is 
transitory and is what it is.  
Change in quiet hours: This proposal also changes the quiet hours with one more quiet hour during week, 
and three more during the weekends (See Proposed Quiet Hours). During quiet hours all noise must satisfy 
the quiet hours dB(A) limitation. The changes proposed to quiet hours are generally supported by the 
Zoning and Planning Commission. 
Proposed Quiet Hours: 
Any weekday (Monday through Friday, except the holidays mentioned 
below)*: 
Before 7:00 a.m. or 
after 87:00 p.m. 
Any Saturday (except the holidays mentioned below)*: 
Before 8:00 a.m. or 
after 85:00 p.m. 
Any Sunday, New Year's Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and 
whenever corresponding Friday or Monday on which the city observes 
that holiday*: 
Before 12:00 noon 
or after 85:00 p.m. 
* In order to work outside normal work hours, must be approved by the City Manager or his designee
before any work outside of the normal hours is commenced. 
Four Potential Approaches For Noise: 
1.
Stay with the current ordinance:
a.
Outside of quiet hours the sound levels are not regulated.
2.
Noise based standard outside of quiet hours.
a.
At the City of Houston, the limitation is 85 decibels, but there was concern that this 85
dB(A) limitation is too low for certain types of work.
3.
Regulate the equipment instead of the noise:
a.
This is approach the proposed ordinance is utilizing. Enforcement is easier as there is
either a sticker, and the manufactures specification that can be provided for compliance.
May 18, 2020 
City Council Workshop Summary
One of the arguments against an equipment-based standard is that landscapers may 
currently not have compliant equipment.  
4. Limit the use of lawn equipment to certain days of the week: 
a. There can be certain days of lawn equipment usage such as when garbage is picked up. 
The drawback to this approach is that it takes away the flexibility of when work is 
performed.  
 
Council Feedback: 
Comment 1: There are 10 leaf blowers available at the 65 dB(A) limitation at the Pin Oaks Home Depot. 
At 70 dB(A) there are 16 available leaf blowers.  
Comment 2: Suggest that we give contractors some period of time, maybe six (6) months to have enough 
notice to conform to the new ordinance for leaf blowers.  
Questions:  
Question 1: Where did the 65 dB(A) standard come from?  
Answer: The 65 dB(A) Standard is used in several cities, such as Portland Oregon. Although, the City of 
Portland does allow for 70 dB(A) leaf blowers during the rainy season to provide more power to move wet 
leaves.  
Question 2: Is there any concern that power washers will be out of compliance with this article?  
Answer: The 85 dB(A) at 25 feet standard should provide enough noise for louder equipment such as 
power washers. 
Question 3: How was this ordinance be enforced?  
Answer: This ordinance would be enforced by Code Enforcement Officer or a Police Officer. If a call comes 
in normal business hours the code enforcement offer would enforce. A list of compliant equipment 
machines that can be utilized could be compiled.  
Question 4: Measuring equipment at the property line?  
Answer: Not needed for most equipment as a sticker identifies compliance or the manufacturers 
specifications can be provided to check for compliance for leaf blowers. 
Question 5: There is an issue with utilizing he public nuisance language of this ordinance, as the Texas 
Supreme Court requires an injury.  
Answer: The City’s Attorney will look into this matter.  
Guidance: 
Council generally more in favor increase in quiet hours. 
Council generally in favor of limitations on equipment, including leaf blowers. Some consideration 
should be given for the 70 dB(A) limitation for leaf blowers.  
Leaf Blowers: 
1) 65 dB(A) or 70 dB(A) at 50 Feet PER ANSI
B175.2.
Sticker on device or approved list (Consumer 
Reports). 
A substantial of leaf blowers satisfy this 
standard.
2) Other outdoor equipment
• Lawn mowers
• Edgers
• Etc.
Outside areas are limited to 85 dB(A) measured at 
twenty-five (25) feet, other than during residential 
quiet hours
Home Depot Leaf Blower dB(A) Rating Survey 
A survey was conducted of available leaf blowers for sale at Home Depot at the Pin Oak and the nearby 
stores of Westheimer, Westbury Square, Spring Valley, and Beltway 8 was performed (See Exhibit A). This 
survey has found that there are 104 available leaf blowers at or below the 65 dB(A), of which only four 
gas leaf blowers satisfy the proposed requirement. When looking at 70 dB(A) or below, there are 11 more 
gas powered blowers available for purchase. Additionally, at 70 dB(A) there are two gas leaf blowers on 
the shelf at nearby Home Depot’s available for purchase. A total of 40% of leaf blowers for sale at Home 
Depot satisfy the 65 dB(A) requirement and 62% satisfy the 70 dB(A) requirement. Allowing 70 dB(A) 
would allow more options for residents and contractors.  
Exhibit A: Noise Levels and Available Leaf Blowers 
Home Depot - Leaf Blowers Survey 
Db(A) Rated 
Level 
Electric 
Gas 
Total 
Available 
In store or 
nearby 
stores 
Electric Gas 
35 to 50  
11 
0 
11 
0 
0 
0 
Greater than 
50 to 65  
89 
4 
93 
11 
11 
0 
Greater than 
65 to 70  
45 
11 
56 
8 
6 
2 
Greater than 
70 to 80  
12 
33 
45 
6 
3 
3 
Greater than 
80 to 90  
12 
2 
1 
1 
1 
0 
Greater than 
90 to 100 
36 
7 
43 
1 
1 
0 
Greater than 
100  
9 
2 
11 
0 
0 
0 
Total 
214 
59 
260   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit B: Available Leaf Blowers as a percentage at Home Depot.  
 
 
Electric Gas Total
Percentage 
of Leaf 
Blowers in 
compliance
Total 65 dB(a) 
and below
100
4
104
40%
Total 70 dB(a) 
and below
145
15
160
62%
* Home depot website as reviewed on 6/6/2020
Summary of Avaible Leaf Blowers
Agenda Item #5
 
       Zoning & Planning Commission 
Municipal Building 3800 University Blvd  
Meeting Minutes 
via teleconference due to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) health threat 
 
May 14, 2020 
 
MEMBERS PRESENT: 
Richard Wilson, John Cutrer, Winfield Campbell, Sylvette 
Bobb and Bob Powell 
 
MEMBERS ABSENT: 
David Kuykendall and Brian Brantley 
 
STAFF PRESENT: 
City Attorney, Alan Petrov, Gerardo Barrera, Public 
Works Director, Clay Chew, Building Official, and 
Josie M. Hayes, Administrator Coordinator 
 
GUEST PRESENT: 
Eddie Matthews, Perry Nolen, Elizabeth Strelow, Paul 
Scheet, Aurelio Diaz and Kim King 
 
1. Notices, Rules, Etc. Richard Wilson; Presiding Officer, called the meeting to order at 5:30 
p.m. and asked commission members and staff to introduce themselves. Richard Wilson 
asked staff to confirm that appropriate notices were given. Josie Hayes stated notices were 
posted per state and local laws.  
 
2. Lighting Regulations. Kevin Taylor and Evan Duvall with BBG Consultants reviewed the 
revisions from the previous meeting. After general discussion by the ZPC, there was 
consensus to making some additional minor corrections to the proposed lighting 
regulations. The ZPC members will seek input and direction from City Council during a 
scheduled workshop in June. 
 
3. Noise Regulations. There were six residents who spoke in favor and against the proposed 
noise regulations. Some stating it would be too difficult to enforce, decibel level isn’t 
reasonable or due to the cost of contractors having to purchase new equipment to meet the 
decibel requirements. Kevin Taylor and Evan Duvall with BBG Consultants summarized 
the revisions from the previous meeting. After a lengthy discussion by the ZPC, there was 
no consensus nor a vote on this topic. ZPC members will seek input and direction from City 
Council during a scheduled workshop in June. 
 
4. Minutes. The commission reviewed the minutes of the meetings held on April 9, 2020. 
Richard Wilson a motion to approve the minutes as amended. Second by Winfield 
Campbell. AYES: Richard Wilson, John Cutrer, Winfield Campbell, Sylvette Bob and Bob 
Powell. NOES: None. ABSTAIN: None. Motion carried. 
 
 
 [Adjournment]  
 
Richard Wilson made a motion to adjourn.  Second by John Cutrer. AYES: Richard Wilson, John 
Cutrer, Winfield Campbell, Sylvette Bobb and Bob Powell. NOES: None. ABSTAIN: None. 
Motion carried.  Meeting adjourned at 6:35 p.m. 
 
 
PASSED THIS  
 
DAY OF  
 
 
 
, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Presiding Officer 
 
 
 
 
ATTEST:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ms. Josie M. Hayes, Administrative Coordinator 
