Village of Cottage Grove 
 
 
 
 
Notice of Public Meeting 
AD-HOC SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE 
Tuesday, June 9, 2020 
 
 
6:00 p.m. 
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, this meeting will take place virtually via Zoom. Please join the meeting from your 
computer, tablet or smartphone by visiting  https://zoom.us/j/96042800654 You can also participate via phone by 
dialing 1 312 626 6799 and use Meeting ID:  960 4280 0654 # When asked for your Participant ID, just press # 
You may also choose to participate by providing public comment prior to the meeting via email to Village Clerk Lisa 
Kalata: lkalata@village.cottage-grove.wi.us 
1. Call to Order 
2. Quorum: determination of quorum and that agenda was properly posted 
3. Public Appearances: public’s opportunity to speak about any subject that is not a specific agenda item 
4. Discuss and consider the minutes from March 10, 2020. 
5. Discuss and consider future committee meetings utilizing zoom or in-person meeting. 
6. Vision Statement: formulation of this committee’s vision statement 
a. Declaration of objectives – challenging, inspiring and future-oriented – our end goal 
b. Ex) Leukemia and Lymphoma Society – “Cure leukemia, lymphoma, Hodgkin’s disease and 
myeloma and improve the quality of life of patients and their families” 
c. For develop and maintain Cottage Grove as an energy independent community with a robust 
ecology for residents to enjoy…  
7. Mission Statement: formulation of this committee’s mission statement 
a. What does our committee do? How do we do it? And why do we do it? 
b. Ex) Tesla – “To accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy” 
c. To design the Village of Cottage Grove for the future sustainable energy economy… 
8. Introduction of Actionable List Spreadsheet: describe purpose of this spreadsheet as a reference for 
future meetings and assign/request items for discussion at future meetings 
a. Ex) Vision/Mission statements, Dane County and other city sustainability plans, social media, 
resident input, etc.  
9. Website/Social Media Presence: Outline template and items presented on a sustainability webpage linked 
to from main CG website. Also implement a hashtag for committee members/residents to post examples 
of themselves and others helping the community become more sustainable.  
10. Adjournment 
 
Any item on the agenda is subject to final action. Notice: Persons needing special accommodations should call 608-839-4704 at least 
24 hours prior to the meeting. It is possible that members of and possibly a quorum of members of other government bodies may be 
in attendance at the above stated meeting to gather information; no action will be taken by any governmental body at the above 
stated meeting other than the governmental body specifically referred to above in this notice.  
